T7TY : - T
fry
cC22a
Western ar.oHsia EDemocrat
VOLXXlH. NO 17
HENDERSONVILLE. N. c THURSDAY MAY 11, 1916
1.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE
- . i
i : . -
d
Co
Secon
Greates
? 000 Children Participate in Parade. Es-
says, Exhibits, track Meet. Speeches
Witnessed by Hundreds of Patrons
I'rof. l'otoat. President of Fuman Unl
irsitj PfHers Strom? Address,
tfrs. J. S. Brown Delivers U. D.
( .MVUal to Miss Mary Loce .
English for Essay.
. .ivtv commencement, the nur- I
,in of which is to arouse greater
uublic interest in the schools and to i
increase the length of the school term j
nd the efficiency of the teachers be-
2an Friday
afternoon and ended the
afternoon of the following day. About
three thousand visitors witnessed the
contests and pageantry. .
The exhibits stalled in the graded
, VoBt
school building from East Flat Rock,
at KOCK, Buwui ricoaau. mil, uu
"Tr jc--n villo were nartieularlv in-
hendersonville were particularly in
teresting and indicative of much inge
nuity on the part of the pupils. Con
spicuous in the fiast Flat Rock booth
was a model dwelling house complete
ly furnished even with dainty window
curtains with crotched "borders. A
well, barn, wagon, wheelbarrow,
chicken coop and Ferris wlreel were
also on exhibition. A loaf ot light'
bread, a plate of excellent beaten bis
cuit, cakes, pies and candy were testi
monials of the extraordinary domestic
science department of the Balfour
school. In the Hendersonville booth
which won the prise, there was a Wire
less apparatus, used by a tenth Igjfade
student in exchanging message wltll
a classmate. This was made by FranK
Bly who also had on exhibition a guM
tar of his own workmanship. There
were also neatly gotten-up booklets of
the lives of - patriots and literatures
written by the pupfls and Veil;' illus
trated with nicturea:: Geometric oris
tiveiy arrangeaj in -uuc- iara wertr
display. tetters: bitten feytaeupijs-
and drawings , from various Krad?
were in evidence.
Though' eterybody was pleased with
the commencement and the successful
school year or which 4t-bpre wiUjess,
some expressed Tegret . that' so muclv
was crowded into' the exercises of the
second day. Besides the fact that-iew
divisions of the general program be
gan on schedule time, , the second day
of the commencement: was .so fulUM1
the singing contestants who. werjp in,,
or spectators at the track -meetj were
unable to- reach the court :iiouse in
time 'to take part in the singing , con-,
test, it has been suggested Uiat , the
track meet be held on Friday morning
next year or that commencement exw
cises begin earlier. -'.-r-
The seventh grade contest opened
Friday afternoon with a song by the
Mills River quartet which was. com
posed of Messrs. Boyce and John Cle
ment, Perry Williams and N. L. Pon
der. Miss Donna V. Laughter, of Hen
dersonville, pupil in -expression of Miss
Hallie Hinds, won the medal for the
best recitation. The other contestants
were Misses Irene Briggs Balfpur),
Dolly Jones (Flat Rock), ..Bonnie
Greenwood (Mills River), Thelma An
drews (Tuxedo). Master. Henry Capps
von the declaimer's medal over Mas
ters John Crook (Mills River), Charlie
Gordon (Mountain Page). John Fisher
(Hendersonville) and Elbert Andrews
(Valley Hill).
Mrs. J. S. Brown, in a graceful
speech, presented the U. D. C. medal
to Miss Mary Loee English for the best
essay on the "Risen South Its Re
sources and Its Opportunities.
In the High school contest at eight
o'clock Friday evening, the winners
were Miss Carrie Lyda and Mr. William
Penny, both of Hendersonville and pu
pils of Miss Hallie Hinds in expres
sion. The other contestants were
Af; t.-l.., t-,i tn.
-uissts r.inei uowen inauuui,
encf. Jones (East Flat Rock), Urace
Iiake (Mills River), Nellie Slattery
(Flat Rock) and Messrs. . Clingman
( apps (Pleasant Hill), Jesse Bell( Flat
Rock),. and Carson Gallamore (Mills
Kivf-rj. Music was furnished by the
Peasant Hill, Tuxedo, and Hender
somille quartets, composed of Messrs.
Roy Brown, Donna Wilkins. Eleazor
'ipree, Robert Drake W. B. Michael,
J- O. Bell. F. P. Kuykendall. J. B. Wall,
F?rry Carter Roy Bennett, Denny i
HSdrmornin8! aTa'de of all
school children of Henderson coun -
y as an imposing spectacle. After
le parade, Dr. Edwin V. Poteat of
Cireenviiie, S. C. President of Furman
(onrt house. The speaker was intro
u :cfd by 'Mr. J. F. Justice of the Hen
dersonville bar, and stated that chil
dren have the right to play, the right
be controlled, and the .right to be
pflucated. It is Dr Poteafs belief that
teachers often have no Idea what val
uable material thev have in their care
and he v ould beware of the man who
aoesn't like childreni.- He said that to
ducate our youth will involve expense
uui not to do so is more expensive.
Saturday afternoon JVIills River mon
the athletic contest hv a. Kcore of 36
26. In the relay race, Clement, Goode,
UtliU;
Cotnmen
Brittain, L. and J. for Mills River won
over Penny, English, Allen and Gray
Cor Hendersonville. . The other results
were:
Pole Vault-Brittain 1st (Mills
River) ; English 2nd (Hendersonville.)
Standing Brnai Tnmn cir,rr ie
(Mills River); Reese 2nd (Henderson-
ville.)
Half Mile Race Brittain 1st (Mills
River); Reese 2nd, (Hendersonville.)
. Running High jump Goode 1-2 1st f
(Mills River).; Clement 1-2 1st ; (Mills
j River.)
440 Yard Dash Gray 1st (Hender-
;fi0?7ne: 2nd (Hendersonville.)
1 220 Yard Dash Goode 1st (Mills
RiTer). EndgUsfc 2nd (Henderson-
IVU16). . - -
i inn v.j t.u j rn
River) ; McKinna 2nd (Hendersonville)
. The singing contest was -won by
Tuxedo.
PRESIDENT AND URS. TYTLSON
TO YISIT CHARLOTTE HAT 20TH
Fla&Ily Consents to bei Present for
Hecklenirarjr Celebration i Haay
North Carolinians to Attend,
Washington, May 9. President WII- .'prpssfngtbr, the big Booster trip to Ilti ierson County so that ypu may
son is coming, to Charlotte to "speak Greenville on Friday -May 19.' 7 genl'mje a statement in writing. setting
May Twentieth, and he will probably! A letter, has been received by Sec- tor t' tiii agreement so that we shall
bring Mrs. Wilson with him. He told -.retary Bridges from the' board, of 'ha ome pfficial record of its exist
Secretary Daniels today that this is , trade , of tJreenville Inviting the local :cnc x As soon as I have received this in
preset lmwuuu. xue ow'y
aw the President today twice In re.a
&rd to the visit. It is understood, of South Carolina, ; tht they, may file withthe County
coursej at the last moment some un-j ;A committee composed of K. G. ; Boards o Election of Henderson ap.d
usual circumstances may arise in the 'Morris, Ft A. Ewbank; Dr. A. C. Tei Rutherford counties. The other can
foreign relations to cause these plant J beau, and;, W. M. Bridges waTs appolnl- ij.ditc3.wiil likewise file with the Coun
ts be cancelled, but at the present" ttrae 10 get up the trip, list the cars' and y j;r.rds of Electipn. -
Mr: WJison . purpose fs to go,. Secre- ,
uoiie. ior. : yv.vf zr.r?x;r:- -
itrs. "Wilson isivenrarixlous to" mak
this : trJp.-: Being Sc utbern., bp ni jier-.
self sher wnt to visit tnat section or
!the Sonti kadmee the people.-
ri n . raj r v. .row ill irj. w . n r u jc . .
time to sneixd Sunday ''al.1uteii - r..Tliey -
Will. UVIk IIBIV- It. M" 1M ' " I
vldson."';
( ETOWABU ROUTE I.
(Special to The Hustler.)'
Etowah- May , 9-The " Henderson
ville township singing . contention at
Pleasant Hill Sunjdayr was well attended-
by the youn people of-Crab
Creek;' :ome of them report good, sing-
inar and an ienJoyable time. . . ' I
The . Sunday school and singing at I .
Crab Creek is progressing nicely..
Mr. and Mrs. E. G. Smith and Mr.
G. J.- Patterson attended the . singing
at Pleasant Hill Sunday. - ,;.
The -box jsupper at Crab Creek last
Thursday night was well attended. It
i reported that the collection, amount
ed to i25.75, which is -expetped ; to be A
paid on a new organ recently purcuas
ed by - the Sunday school. . ' . - '
D. 0. D. Hamilton made a flying trip
to Hendersonville Saturday.
We are glad to report, that Mrs. G.
J. Patterson who has been on the sick
list, is very much improved, and able
to be out again. " .
D. O. 'McCrary and W. O. Hamilton
was seen on the streets of Biantyre
last Monday. " "
AMBASSADOR OPPOSED TO WAR,
American Ambassador to Berlin Quofc
ed in Interview in the National
Zeitung; FigMinir Against It.
Berlin Saturday May o. via o-ion-
dnn Mav 7 In an interview in the
James vv. ueraru,
UV. AmoriMn amDaSSaaor. IS UUULCU
tuB -
"In this crisis, as in an prevwus
crisis t attached the greatest value to
removing misunderstandings between
Germany and America and did every- Province, D. D., of the facutly of Fur
thin in mv power that a conflict be- jman University, Greenville S. C,
:.ppn the two countries might be avoid- preached the baccalaureate sermon.
Id t want no war between Germany .The Sunday evening program consist-a-id
America I have never wanted ,ed of a. sacred concert, which was
anH shall never want one. (given by the Young Peoples Union.
t a,,re you that the accusation Mr." T. Few Shipman and Professor
1 assure ? - i-riv-.i.- ,.n
that I am
an enemy of viermany is
I have never done any-
Jibing to Justify the charge that I hate
.men." . hne' un have maligned
Against those who v "f1
him Ambassador Oerardwala to
; leading personages m tje German gov
newspaper interview states, know that
he has done and is doing everything
possible to preserve peace between
Germany, and the United States
All morning newspapers, with the
excention of the Tages Zeitung, xe
S prominently the National i Zei
tung's interview with- Ambassador
Gerard. v .''
A new electric washing machine for
household erdoesls worJta
B-g-- by its- op
stationary launary u- Tl
UITBU O
erator.
cement
. . . . . . . r - ' ?
oolHistom.
E. J. RHODES
2SJ??S5iSiSr "l.Tencratic
PVv9f h erm Jl -
r-?E etoa7r be;hfid JU
J'S? hroupn
oSVtrto
qelve ta solid Democratic vote in the
BOOSTER TRIP PLANNED
; lFOB GREENVILLE, MAY jf' crr.t ,-.,the , State Board of Elections
4 '-vjl&ilS a ,kn W 1 " 110 therj recourse than to: certify
A;3rr Ieirt Autoaobfle Owner ?t . t jemocratic nominee's the names
Qaxry Citizena. to jSontlr; - v & r: j :r. . Harrill. of Rutberfordton, and
. : ; s - Carolina' City. , A . -t: - Justice, of-Hendersonville. . - :
The date has ben set the committee ,ri jira ritingryoii as chairman of the
has beeix named and work Is now pro-tDr: ;cratic - Executive 'Committee of
7 lul "rs.
www rie secuon.anc Justice tne rees paid py tnem so
arrange-tc details ingeneraL.; a -
trtpprovlde tlur wither -wm.Termit.l
' ' 1 . .. . ,
"rnv view riTT. i
's - . Mialed f or fiay Kt-ir -'-- -
. .m-v- -o -y. -
f ' advestulsar cszj. 'It la ' donbtfal
-5 If we vtlll. be able to'handle any "
wew tjey after next' week; as we"
shall 1 Irasy v settfaij- dp fca4
. rfntlarS' '2f reiaalnlnjc rung of
-Hhe bl Jgsde." . , v ;. -
TFetferylMdy dvery-
Wngyt 4he ' WORTIIiWHILEv4
natnre rerea3Mrtit8 to 'fee repre-
f i sentcd... 4nd If we Lave nof geeri -
"...TID -ri f l!l -A KM' tab iltoH Imt. "
that detain you. Call ns np and :
trfiii two 'tmi a Tin i
Tis Issue is alcnlattfd to do
greaTfodd" for the town sad
county. ; ; . ; - -
r. :-' r . u
fill
WD INSTITUTE CLOSES
ER VERY
COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES TVEB WELL ATTENDED NEXT SEASON
PROMISES TO FIND INSTITUTE WITH NEW BUILDINGS AND
MANY IMPROVEMENTS. - v
Tpe commencement at Frultland is
over, the trunKs are pacKed and tne
boys and girls are scattered here, and
.iiiere ovu a iuus a uuuuicu mnco
.1 or more. The school hill, which was
uuue so iuu ui mc, ccui uvfyv oimuci.
ui-
The teacners are still here,
. . . ... . h
The exercises of the commencement
season began Sunday morning, the
thirtieth of April, when Rev. H. W.
j-uiaivDiuii. h?utwcu cauuhcui
.aresses ai mat ume aiso. xne eu-
nesaay evening . ionowing,- me expres
sion contest for the ,Nan Miller medal
was held by the Philoponocian Liter
ary Society. Miss Willa Bridges of
Spartanburg, S. C, was the successful
contestant. In the " declamation con
test Thursday . morning Mr. Walter
Justus of Flat Rock won the medal.
The class day exercises of the class
of 1916 were held Thursday afternoon.
After, the. chfss oration by Mr.-Joe
Capps of. Pleasant Hill, which was an;
eulogy on our national flag, the large
audience gathered around the main
entrance to the new administration
buildtag to see the Stars and Strip.es
hpisted to the flag staff,! where it! .will
call-tor the loyalty of patriotic citi
zens 'tor years to 'come, r Mr. W. B.
Yates"-of 'Robesop'county wap decided
ttpoa -as- having the .'best oration
iieoi
- - - . ..
vmmm
In view 6f the fact that there are
still some people in the county who
have not been enlightened upon, the
decision in the recent senatorial mud
dle in, which the candidates for the
Democratic nomination found them
selves, the Hustler is nnhHshinp- the
correspondence which took place be-
'Itween the office of chairman of state
beard of election and R. M. Oates act
ing ' chairman of the county executive
committee.. .
c .Raleigh. N.,C. May 1. 1916.
Hcn.rR. m. Oates, Chairman, .
i I Hendersonville, N. C.
Denr Stir:: ;
.- I am advised by Mr. W. F. Edwards,
chairman of the County Board of Elec
tioi;3t that ian. agreement exists on the
pari of the Democratic Executive Com
mittees, of "the' several counties com
peting the 32nd . District that the Sen-
come from Henderson and Ruther
Xou counties. That being true, of
ec' V umler the primary law. 'the
.for the Senate in that dis-
file their no-
r , :.Mfnf rv, r
cf l lections instead of 'the State Board
"cf Elections. - r
KrT'ivlnr A vrwwi nt tihi- r,
"t6 . .
.; , tr , - v Yours veryaruly, v. ' r
H : . 1 -C$iy l&tt:
Mr. Wi S. Wilson.
, Raleigh, N. C-
Deslr Mr. Wilson: . - , , ,
Ji have your favot of the 1st mat,
and beg to say- that, Mr. Edwards came
to me Saturday, April 29 and the
letter he wrote ypuwas drafted by.me.
r also had a talktwltb-Mr. A. B. Free
man of this Cpuritv, a. member of your
State Board of .jjleptldn, ; who explain
ed to me-.thP ppsltipn -taken by. your
Board, ' but .stated thaulie had person
aUy4.reported In aVrneeting of -your
Board that tills .agreement existed: in
this . S'enatof ialdlstriHqwever .ll1
this may be,. I -understand your posi
tion thoroughly aid it affords me
pleasure t aay thatyfrbm 'the forma
tion of the present 32nd-Senatorial dis
trict consisting Of . tap..- .counties of
! Cleveland, Henderson. Poik. and Ruth-
jerford, to which distrtct-two Senators
r - ' .
I ' (Continued oa-Page 5.) .
PROFITABLE YEAR
Thursday evening for which he receiv
iefl a Deautirui goia meaai.
No school is more blessed in the
loyalty and devotion of its graduates
than Fruitlarid. A large number of
these gathered in the dining room xt
the Girls' Home Friday morning for
the alumni breakfast. The hour was
a pleasant one in which greetings were
received from graduates of the school,
both present and absent. The con
cluding exercises of the commence
ment season were held Friday morn
ing when Dr. Calvin B. Waller of
shevllle captivated his audience in
his great address on "Grasshoppers or
Giants." This address was filled with
wit and humor and withal genuine in
spiration and appealed for greater
lives. The address. was a fitting, in
troduction for what followed. V The
twenty three members of the senior
class then received their diplomas and
medals for the year were delivered by
Rev. C E. Puett, the pastor of the
Fruitland Baptist church. There was
genuine regret on every hand that Dr.
W. F. Powell of Chattonooga, Tenn.,
could not be present as had been
planned.
The Board of Trustees met Friday
afternoon. The completion of the new
administration building will mark a
new era in the work of the school,
School . will open next fall with new
recitation rooms .new society halls
and In every way the school will be
better fitted' to provide' for the boys
and girls who wish to take advantage
of the opportunities' -offerpd by. Fruit -
land Institute. .
e mm mm m
MIST BROltOI JACKSO!
FOR
STAJi
TO PROMOTE HARMONY VALENTIN' AND FREEMAN STEP DOWN AND
OUT FOR JACKSON: RACE PROMISED TO STIR REPUBLICAN
CAMPS IN THE COUNTY.
MEXICAN BANDITS AGAIN
' RAID AMERICAN SOIL.
Three American Soldiers and 10-Year-Old
Boy KUled ; . Raid. Took Place
Last Friday Night.
Alnlna TaToo Uttk-a T Ti 1 1 o V.nrilit'.
some 75 in number, forded the. Rio
T-
Grande Friday night and, sweeping 15 (ers ma1, De- worK Ior ims fesun
miles inland on American '.'soli, raided nks been auietly going on throughout
the" little settlement of Glenn Springs j tne county for several weeks. It s
and attacked a detachment of Ameri- aid that friends of Messrs. Valentine ;-
an nnvairv onTniGtin. A nfno tnon .
txoop A, the 14th cavalry. .
Three' troopers and a little 10-year-
old boy were killed, two cavalrymen
iwere wounded and: another is missing,
He is believed to be a prisoner f the
bandits, who are now fleeing south
ward Into Coahuila, Mex. -
Two "American citizens, J. Deemer,
and, a man named Conrpton, according
to reports received' here, were carried
across' the Rio Grande and reports
have! it that -their throats were cut.
A .posse of 50 citizens of Marathon
tonight are In pursuit of the Villistas. :
Report t Headquarters Goes More In-
to Details.
San Antonio, Tex., May 7. The re
port at army neaaquarters here?was
hflSfi(1 nrl a statement made hv Private
r7.rhr boPd.l naoi -wWarriv:
ed at Marathon, Tex., today
Birch stated that the band which at
tacked -the town, h where nine y United
Stats soldiers were . on duty, was com
posed of about 75 Mexicans Taking
refuge- behind Sn adobp : )iousp,vthQ J
aauad of dXdiera 'ah'otheTAmertcanH
heldnfT tMtraexm'SXx
hours,, when the bandits succeeded
setting , nre-W-the 'roof?or;th4bullding
and the5 Americans, were forced to flee
Other buildings :in the town; . were
burned. It was. in lea vmg the build
ing that the: three Americans were
killed or wounded. . , -
Birch could not say how many Mex
icans had ' been killed. The ground
where they made their stand was cov
ered With blood. : : ,
As the Mexicans ran into the town
firing . indiscriminately, they were
heard to shout the famliar "Viva Villa.'
Inuaediate Preparation Slade-to Cap
ture Bandits. ':; ;
: El PaBso, Tex, "May 7-Three Atrier-
lean soldiers' and a. teit ,year Qld boy
hav lost their lives and two American
citizens have been kidnaped and car
ried south of the International bound
arv to almost certain death in another
raid of - Mexican bandits that takes
' rank' with Francisco Villa's . famous at
tack on Columbus,. NV M. Whether the
marauders were Villa, bandits or Car-
ranza forces isMjt knowd.
,The bandits', foray ..parrying 1 them
thorough the southern Hmil's of Brews- .tion regardless -of fhe primary results.'
ter county in the Big Bend district of j. When 'seen' oy!iStler reporter Mr.
Texas, and ; taklngin three 'little set- Jackson" admitted that petitions had
tlements near - the -;border-:-Glenn tbeen circulated in the county, although
Springs, onquillas. arid' peemers took . without his authorization. He em
place on Friday night and Saturday phatically statedthat he. was running
morning. but news of it did not reach in the primary and would abide hy the
here until today." ; ' j results Mr. Jackson has paid hfs- fee
Within an hour preparations had j as a candidate, but has not yet taken
been begun for adequate action. Major , the pledge. ' - ; ' i
General Jninston ordered four troops
of cavalry to the raided section to rein
force small detachments "'already on
their way to the scene from . Presidio,
Alpine and other points.
These troops got under way tonight.
It is said here that of the exigencies
oL the case demand such action they
will cross the border in order to run i Until Fire Department Responded,
down and disperse the bandits. The I The following communication has
forces consist of two troops of the 8th been received from a Hustler sub
cavalry from Fort Bliss, El Paso, un- scriber who seems to have . inside in
der Major Laughorne, and two troops formation about the call made at the
of the 14th cavalry from Fort Clark,
under Colonel Sibley, commander of.j
the 14th.
BABY SHOW AT QUEEN.
Photographs of fiabiest, Grown uPs and
Business Houses to be Shown, on.
J Screen Next Week at Queen. :
t I .
The Queen theater has closed a con-,
tract with the Novelty Amusement
.company by which a baby and home
folk3 show will be held at the theater
commencing Monday, May 15. for five ages, (altho calls were sent in to Cen
nights and matinee every day, show- tral and Central prpinptly answered
ing same pictures as' at 'night.' j until help" came. A bucket brigade
This company will endeavor to pho- would have been better than waiting,,
togfaph every child, home and store waiting, waiting.' ' '
in this' citv free of charge as well as
make snap shots of tne grown-ups on MOTHERS' DAY OBSERVED.
the streets unaware and show , them . . - .
on the screen on the dates above men- Mothers' Day will be observed at the .'
tioned. -; - -' . . : ,
j This show ? is an added, attraction to
the regular service shown, at this weli
; known theater. V r.
Gold is being mined at . a depth of
more' than 5.000 . feet in South .Africa,
; and .It is Jaelleyed that the shafts can
I be sunkJs.OOO ieet t'''"-.
LEGISLATURE
The. biggest surprise of the season
in Henderson county political circles
took place Saturday when it was
learned that George H. Valentine and
A. B. Freeman, two opposing candi
dates for the - Republican nomination
j for legislature had withdrawn in favor
I of Brownlow Jackson who is said tn be
a compromise candidate of the "pow- f
: At A -Wr . M IT.
and Freeman were waging a bittei1.:;
jugnt and the campaign : proxmsea to . -
.hreak up all harmony of the local Re- ' -
publican party unless something was .
uuue, ' - ;
No sooner had Mr; Jackson been an
nounced as the only Republican candi
date, than Judge Hamilton : G. Ewart
entered the .ring. He stated to his
friends that he would make a canvass '
of the entire county as a candidate to
represent- the people of Henderson ,
county in the legislature, at the Kov '
ember election. Judge Ewart repre-' -
sented; this county in the legislature
six yearsj agp. i
Brownlow. : Jackson is one : ofv the
leading Republicans of the .pounty -He
is at prespnt busy managing the cam
paign of ?Congressman.J. J. Britt and
is chairiaan of the Republican congTes-:
siohal ' executive committee of the
Tenth district. It is understood that
his : duties wil Inot conflict with the
office of representative to the legisla
ture,! He states that if ejected he will
endeavor to make thexbestrreoi'esenta- '
tive h icounty1 Jiaa ever hadThls' is f " r
ocjee, ijsm isermcoisniyu .
postniasfetrIISnde
twp; adtainiStritioha- -aid : vfcakC'eltctt JL' ' -president
of ther PepIesr aioal '7:
bank -While serving hl&-lastyear'aL :4'
postmaster; -When the PeoplesV.Na ' .:
tiohal. consolidated with'; the -Citizeas. .. '
bank he was: retained- as -vice presl- '
dent, wliich office he now-holds Last ' -winterv
he forntedT a partnership.l.w.ith;;
K. G. Morris and W. A. Smith In the
real estate and' insurance business
which capacity he is now active..;; .. i '
Judge Bwart",the opposing, candidate, ,
has been dnerof the best knowir.Repub
Hcans T in :N. (X -. He left Monday . ' V
for Raleigll where he will appear, be- f
fore tho Supreme court for a client of
his.: In writing to a rfriend in flen
dersoh ville Judtoe Ewart said -that! he -would
be inf the November, election ''. ; '
for .legislatirsje," which indicated that he
would side step the state -primary , by
meeting? certain requirements' - -
It is rumoredj: that the friends of ; '
Mr,- Jackson ar pirOUlating petitions
mrougnouv -.xne xo4unxy-.?ior -tne same
purpose which woualgp ,enabl ehim
to be in the race in the November elec
Statistics show that there are fewer
suicides among 'miners- than among,,
any other class of workers. '
AS TO UECENT FIRE.
: Subscriber Says it Was a Long Wait
recent fire on Fleming street
"How long does it take, Central, to
tell !To wn Hall o fa fire?"
Ans. "A moment of time."
"How long does it take Town Hall
phone to communicate with fire de-
partment?" ? ' . .
j ,-Ans. "A moment of time."
But who can answer as to length of
time it takes when the rope is out of
reach of man's arm and the fire bell
hangs high and silent?- "
. Ans. 'To those who own homes be-
tween 6th and 8th avenues it seemed ,
First Baptist church on. Sunday morn-
ing at 9:45 (during the Sunday school
jiour). The Philatheas. have arranged
a special program. All are invited to
be present and especially all mothers.
A dredge built in Holland for the
government of Uruguay crossed the
, Atlantic ocean under its own steam.'
