vWahomn. okln
Oklah
0D Hi. Soeitf
i.
The BEAVER HERALD
.wl
Oldest Oklahoma Newspaper. Established 1886.
BEAVER, BEAVER COUNTY, OKLAHOMA, THURSDAY, MAY 11, r9i6.
VOLUME 29
No. 49
I&Q25!SSi3 &$ I-Q iIJ2 2i-3 2Vi3 iO 2--S? 2i? 1LSl!! 5LAJ9 5AJ?i
1" M JpPf
m
iK.
LA
Uf'
HB tflfcP
Guard at! ' the
uncertain! f the
future. Sg v rr vour
iBank Ac: sjnt io-dtayl
A bank accouat Is the shield for protection, and, once
you begin to save, yon will be convinced it is the only
road to comfort and wealth. .
A person should takp no 'risks of disadvantage in the
future while he is nblp to mike himself secure. When
one is so situated us to be able to afford risks, then he
may be venturesome.
Start a bank account with us now.
Interest paid on savings.
F.LAUGHRN.Ppss. V JAS.H.CRABTREE.Cash.
CAN YOU BEAT IT.
Last Saturday there were 843 auto
mobiles to be Been on the streets of
Beaver, the great majority of which
were owned and driven vl'y Beaver
county farmers. The following makes
were represented: Buick, Falge, Al
len. Marion, Jackson, Dort, Overland,
Oakland, Dodge, Empire, Req, Chev
rolet, Maxwell, Saxon, Studebaker,
tiphinx. Case, Moon, Hupmoblle,
Grant, Mlnhell and Ford. Use your
lead poneil for Just a moment, taVIng
the figure of 750 as the average cost
of each, and multiply the number of
autos by that figure and see what the
result will be! $2M,'.:0.00. Think of
itl A little over a qunrteruf a million
dollars invested in automobiles by the
farmers and townspeople of Beaver
County, Again f say.csnyou beat it!
SHOW DAY A BIG DAY.
Monday was "Show Day" and it was
Indeed a big day for Beaver. The town
was crowded with people and our mer
chants report a splendid trade.
Cooper Brothers Combined Shows
visited Beaver that day and put on
morning and evening performances.
Their largo tent was well packed at
both shows and those mho wltnesaed
the performances say that it was high
class, clean and worth the money. The
public were pleased, the show people
enjoyed a good patronage and the bus
iness people "of Beaver made some
extra money on account of the large
number of people in town that day
so all were pleased. We believe good,
clean, worth-the-priae attractions are
a benefit to any town and help to keep
things moving and wide-awake. Wo
hope all the good things on the road
will come this way.
CONVICTED OF RAPE.
D D Gracy, who was tried and con
victed of rape, being sentenced to five
years In the penitentiary, but who was
being held in the county jail while an
dTort was being made to provide a
bond of $5,000 03 to cover a twenty day
stay of execution, failed, to seoure such
bond within tlio allotted time, and he
was taken this week to McAlester.
Have a fit with Uunv, The Taii on
3,000 People Attend
Big Lot Sale and
Barbecue
Beaver Heights Swarmed
With Prospective Purchasers
OVER 300 AUTOMOBILES ON THE STREETS
DAS DRUG COMPANY BRICK COM
MENCED.
Work was commenced this week on
the foundation for the new brick which
Is betrijr built by the D ivis Drug Com
pany, just north of Robertson's store,
and which will be occupied by the drug
it ire when completed. The erection
&( this building gives Douglas Avenue
another imposing structure, and will
add greatly to tho appearance of that
part of the street.
BEAYER WINS AGAIN.
Another baseball game on the hon
diamond Saturday afternoon resulted
In victory for the Beaver team. Bea
ver and Gray crossed bats, Beaver win
ning by a score of 0 to 3 The home
team Is starting out with a good rec
ord. It looks like they were going to
have many scalps iu their belt at the
close of the seasou.
UNITED IN MARRIAGE.
A number of friends and well wishers
gathered at the home of Mr. and Mrs
John Coulter, at 3 o'clock. May 3rd, to
witness the marriage of John Butler,
of Beaver, to Anabel Reynolds, of
Pittsburg, Pennsylvania. J. B. Coulter
officiated. Tho groom is one of Hea
ver county's prosperous farmers, and
the bride is an accomplished young
lady of Pittsburg. All wish them a long
and happy life together.
COOL, PLEASANT ROOMS FOR RENT,
PHONE 72 FOR LOCATION, TERMS, &C.
The biggest evunt since tho advent of the new railroad, in
fact, one of tho biggest events ever staged in Beaver, was the Big
Lot Sale and Barbecue, in Beaver Heights last Saturday, which
was put on by the Cady Lnnd Company, of which H. R. Barnard
is the local representative and who had charge of the arrange
ments. The event had been widely and thoroughly advertised and
everybody from far and near came in to take in the festivities and
take advantage of the opportunity to buy some choice lots in this
splendid new addition. Various estimates have been placed on the
number of people in attendance, but we feel that we are conserva
tive when we place the number at 8,000. There may have been
more. There could not have been but few less, People came from
aM directions and from all over the county, as well as from adjoin
ing counties and states. A good idea of the size of the throng may
be determined when it is known that 1800 pounds of beef, 2500
buns, 400 loaves of bread, and 125 gallons of coffee were served to
the crowd at the noon hour.
The prospority.of Beaver County in general was demonstrated
most forcibly by the, large number of those who visited Beaver that
day, driving in, in automobiles. Those who claim to know say that
there were more than 800 cars on the streets, and, for the most
part, these were owned by Beaver County farmers. Our alert
County Attorney, C. F. Twyford, took the trouble to secure some
data as to automobiles, and he tells us that there were 843 cars
here, and that, basing their value at a very fair figure, they repre
sented a total valuation of $250,250.00. That is not so bad. What
county of our size and population can beat such a record y We
doubt if there is anothor county in tho State, or any other state,
for that matter, that can equal it.
The lot sale was a decided success, as well as the barbecue.
First National Bank
OF BEAVER
Member Federal Reserve Bank
Capital $25,000 Surplus $2,500
J. W. WKIU1, President JOHN SAVAOK, Cashier
FHANK MAPI.K, Vice-Pres. W. II. WKLLS, Afst. Cash,
J. O. ELLIS, Vice-President
THE ONLY NATIONAL BANK IN BEAVER COUNTY
Mr. Barnard tells us that ho and his salesmen wore busy
all the time and that a largo number of lots were sold during tho
sale, and that business has been brisk since. Those who looked
over the now addition could not help but bo pleased. It is a most
desirablo location, splendidly situated, and fs beyond doubt In tho
heart of the best residenoe section of the city.
Aside from tho benellt which the Land Company realized from
the sale of lots and tho advertising of their tract, tho event was a
big thing for Beaver, It cost the promoters no small amount of
money, yet they bore absolutely all tho expense and were only
glad that other Beaver business people could share in tho benefits.
Tho Cady Land Company aro spending considerable mon'oy in
opening up this tract. They aro putting it in first-class shape,
have graded up tho streets and erected attractive markers a tho
entrance of each street, giving it a very classy and exclusive ap,
pearance. They have demonstrated that they are live, wide-awake
business men, and of the class which our town should be glad
to welcome.
Attorney H. H. Loofbourrow is in
Oklahoma City this week attending to
professional business From thore ho
will go to Norman for a brief visit with
his son Harold, who is a student at
Oklahoma University.
The Qslflln Thst Doss Not Affect Tlw Hsttf
Dccauae of ill tonic and laxative effect. LAXA
TlVHBKOMOQUININKisbelterthan ordinary
Sulnlne and doe not cauae nervousness nor
deIok In bead, kemember the lull name and
look for tbc signature o( U. W. CROVlt. lie
Hia-l the I1skli vis today.
Mamiiei At the residence of tho
bride's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Oreo D.
8mlthvon Wednesday evening, May XI)
1010, Mr Russell Fry and Miss Btnul
Smith, Elder L. h. Shaw officiating.
These young people are both highly ro
spected by a Urge circle of friends aud
acquaintances! "KUnell Is a graduate
of Beaver High School, and Ethef lias
been a valued aud successful teacher
iu both the city grade school and in
country district school. May tbelr lot
be cast in pleasint places, and their,
lives be long and prosperous.
DR. MUNSELL WILL BUILD-
Work was commenced this week on
an extension of Dr. Munsell's oillce
building on Second Street. The new
aidltloa will be of tile, and will pro
vide four additional oillce rooms. YV
8 Potter and W. F. Shaw have the
O witract.
Frank Goodnight, one of the big cat
tlemen of the eastern half of the coun
ty, was a Beaver visitor tho past week,
lie waB here buying sohool land and
expects to movo a large number of cat
tle te the land purchased.
H. D. Truax transacted business at
Woodward between trains Sunday.
1 have the best farm
loan proposition in Bea
ver county. Get my
terms before closing
any loan. : : : :
H. N. LAWSON, Agent
DEATH CLAIMS LITTLE ONE.
Death entered the home of Mr, 'a d
Mrs D. Humphrey, of this city, early
Tuesday morning and called away the
spirit of their baby daughter, Alice
Dott, who had been ill for several days
with muaslHS, fallowing which mem
branous oroup developed and claimed
the little sufferer. Alice was born
June 20th 101 i and passed away May
9th 1010, being just a little less than
two years of age, at the very age when
all her baby sweetness and prattle now
forever stilled, will be most keenly
felt by the fond mother and father and
other members of the household.
Owing to the nature of the illness, it
was not deemed best to conduct a pub
lic funeral. Brief services were con
ducted at tho grave by Rev. Leonard
Tuesday afternoon and the little body
laid to rest In the Heaver cemetery.
Beaver friends sympathize with the
bereaved ones In their sorrow and sin
cerely regret this deep aflllction which
has come upon them.
Lout Small solid gold cross pin set
with six white sets, between my home
and the Christian church, Friday
night. Finder will be liberally re
warded by returning same to
Mas I. W. Moo he,
Ji-4 6.11 "l Beaver, Okla
, No. UN
KKl'ORT OK THK CONDITION' OF
THE BANK'OF BEAVER GITY,
At Beaver In the Stat of Oklahoma, at the close
f business May lit, 1916.
HESOUIIC18;
1.0 ID and Discount t07,(2 37
Overdrnlts, aeenred and unsecured.... 1,1122.41
Security with Banking- U(iul().. 1.703.VS
Hanklli House ...... .. 2,000 0
Hirullure and Futures . . . 1.300 00
Duo from Uanks.. ,, 68.3M) 'JS
Checks and other cash Items . .- 852.74
Cash Iu bank ,.... - 8,137.38
r.
Total.
1179,479.74
LIABILITIES.
Capital Stotk paid In 11S.0O0 CO
Undivided Profits, Leas Expenses ocd
latwi Cald .. .. I.S44.49
Individual deposits subject to Check .. 161.SC8.25
Time Uertltiotte of Deposit. 1,2M.(
Liabilities other than those above suited. None
Total -. . S17M78.74
Slate of Oklahoma, County of Boater, (m.)
I, J as. II, Catkkk, Cashier ol the above named
Bank, do solemnly swear that the above state,
inent Is true, to the beat ot my knowledge and be
lief, so help me liod.
Jas. II. Cbabtkxe, Cashier.
Subscribed and avorn to before me this lOlh
day of May.lllS.
John W. Savack. Notary Public
My commission expires March 27, 1620.
CorrectAttest
F. Lauohsin)
t Directors.
F. C. TsaCT) Ml H8 2t
-
Extra Special!!!
Don't Forget to Attend tne
WESTERN SALES COMPANY'S
r I
Big Clothing Sale
The Big Event of the Season
Clothing at Prices, Never Equalled Before
Sale Starts Thursday, May llfh
A
N
D
Continues over Monday, May 15th
We -will not be in tne K. P. building, next door to the
StId.omb:tMa?dvor; NEW LOCATION
"DAD" MANSFIELD'S POOL HALL BUILDING
LOOK FOR OUR BLUE SIGNSDO NOT FAIL IN THE LOCATION.
I
m
