Vol. 27 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 5, 1916 No. 8 H
Time For Action
"THE war in Europe has now been raging two
years. It has cost some millions of lives,
millions more have been mailed; thousands in
Itho red track of the war have starved and are
starving, beautiful structures and works of art
have been destroyed and 'the cost in "money up
to date is reckoned at $55,000,000,000. And what
has been accomplished of good to any nation
or for mankind?
It is time that question should be asked by
some potential voice. We do not think 'the neu-
tral nations are doing their duty, we think that
f had they united in The Hague or some other
1 tribunal months ago and gone to work in earn-
l est, they would before now have accomplished
I something.
I Most of the nations at war are today like
l a man who has caught the polls of a battery,
i . completed the circuit and cannot let go.
They would be glad to stop if they knew how.
i We think had the tribunal met and commenced
the framing of a new international code, and as
they agreed upon a section, have submitted it to
all the powers now at war for approval or dis
approval, they might by this time have completed
some thing which all the warring powers might
' have been willing to accept as a basis of set
tlement.
Itis foolishness to say that the belligerents
are still too angry to consider any proposition of
peace. Nations are like individuals; we have
I all seen two fighting men who were crazy to get
s at each other and declaring that they would never
cease their efforts until that thing was accom-
, plished.
t We have all seen one of them suddenly quit
when told that his wife or child was looking for
him, while it required a night behind the bars
. of a jail to cool the other one and make him
reasonable.
jj Each of the belligerents might reject a proposi-
tion for peace, if it came from the other side,
I but if the proposition was incorporated as a rule
I . to govern all nations in war or peace, it might
be accepted. And the duty of neutral nations is
to be formulating such rules right now. No one
) can estimate what power such a peaceable con
vention would have. It would be backed by the
nations at peace and by the prelate upon whom
most of the nations at war look upon as God's
"Vicegerent on earth.
Then suppose a proposition should be ad
vanced, which if accepted, would become a law
I binding alike on all nations and should be ac-
1 cepted by one side in this war and rejected by
the other, in what position would it place those
V rejecting it? Would it not at once array the
whole world in sentiment against those who re
jected it? That would be an isolation which the
strongest could not bear.
Meanwhile the bravest and best of all those
nations are dying in field and trench and hos
pital; women and little children are starving,
and the wreck and the mourning are increasing
every day. Who says the neutral nations that
are looking calmly on and making no move to
stop the horrors are doing their duty? And how
is our country with all its people and power and
with its flag of freedom advanced, acquitting it
self? Is it giving any sign of its real majesty
and its solicitude for the world's peace? Have
we as a people reached the point when we "'.i:
consistently say: "It is not our concernment, et
them fight it out!"
Have wo with our millions reached a point
when in the world's estimation our country counts
for nothing?
Our thought is that those in power should call
the world's attention to the fact that the destruc
tion going on should cease, and to begin to form
ulate a code which, all the world would accept.
Mr. Hughes' Acceptance
IT was what was expected. It expressed exact
ly the sentiments of millions of men in this
country. He may be charged with a lacking In
courtesy to the present chief magistrate, but that
gentleman is running for a second election on
his record and that record has to be considered
that the people may decide whether or not they
desire a second edition of it. Moreover, Mr. Wil
son's friends loudly applaud it, and then Mr. Wil
son will have ample time to discuss it between
now and November. And Mr. Wilson does not
hesitate to express his opinion of those 'who op
pose him. On more than one public occasion of
late he has expressed the opinion that to use a
biblical form of speech, said plainly enough, that
were the Democratic party to cease to exist, wis
dom would perish from the earth.
If his methods toward both Great Britain and
Germany show any either practical or political
sagacity, a good many of us are too opaque to
see it; if his handling of Mexican affairs has
been that of a statesman, then a great many mil
lions of people need to have their dictionaries re
vised. The same may be said of his treatment
of the question of a merchant marine. And this
should be considered in direct connection with
his own promises before his election, while his
treatment of the tariff has been Bourbon from
the beginning Bourbon in the sense of never for
getting anything or ever learning anything.
The acceptance has a practical, decisive, business-like
ring. There is no dramatic display, no
playing to the galleries. Nothing that reminds
us of Dead sea apples, or a drum major on parade,
or the boast of killing of seven men in buckram
when it was so fearfully dark that no man could
distinguish the color of the uniform. It sounded
the real opening of the campaign and the ring
of it is business all through.
Lane On Mexico
IT is very touching to read what Secretary of
the Interior Lane has to say of the sorrow of
the poor peons of Mexico and what must be
done to bring to them justice and enlightenment.
We do not give the secretary credit for believing
what he says, for he is sharp as a steel trap,
but he is out to defend Mr. Wilson's policy, and
like a gifted lawyer, is trying to make the worse
appear the better cause.
But as secretary of the interior he is at least
ex-officio the patron saint of the Indians. Now,
to make a parallel for his dissertations on Mexico,
let us suppose that some enemy of the adminis- H
tration should make a reporton conditions on the H
Navajo Indian reservation down in Now Mexico, H
and that it should read about as follows: H
"The situation here is most pitiable. The H
masses of the people live in what are called H
wickiups, that contain not one modern comfort, H
to say nothing of luxuries. In them all I did not H
see one bath tub; or cooking range, or refrigora- H
tor, or French bedstead. There is not a library. H
The children are but half clothed. I did not see H
a physician's sign in the place. Exercising the H
old brutal law of might, the men compel the H
women to do all the work. Some of these women H
are real artists. They weave a most substantial H
and beautiful blanket which the men sell for H
high prices and I am told as a rule gamble off the H
money. There is but one miserable school-house H
and no church. H
"The government has taken from them their H
great tracts of lands, paying them but a pitiable H
price. H
"I see but one hope for these poor people, and H
that is to shake off the tyranny of the United H
States, and for them to begin the redemption of H
their country from within themselves." H
The foregoing would be just as sensible as H
are Mr. Lane's lamentations over the peons of H
Mexico. That is not all, Secretary Lane knows H
it, and our belief is that when in private he reads H
one of his own interviews about Mexican peones, H
ho tosses a penny in the air to see whether he H
ought to cry or laugh over it. H
Blackmail And Blackmailers M
WILLIAM J. BURNS of New York declares that M
the great crime of the age is blackmailing. H
That millions of dollars were collected by it last jH
year in New York City. That it is -carried on H
mostly by elegantly dressed and accomplished H
men and women, but it is of all grades down to H
the Italian bomb-thrower; that the Mann white lH
slave act, intended for a good purpose, was at IH
once seized upon by the accomplished blackmail- H
ers of both sexes because of the opportunities it H
opened to them. There has been a marked in- H
crease to the ranks of these birds of prey since H
the war in Europe began, as so many who were H
formerly of the class these creatures loved to H
work upon are in the trenches, and the govern- l
ments across the sea have a way of making it fjH
unpleasant for those who seek to interfere with H
their soldiers. Burns gives the classes these H
devils most love to work upon in their order. ' JH
(1) The wealthy married woman comes first. lH
(2) Wealthy, very respectable men with jH
strong social and church connections. jH
(3) College or school boys with money in H
their own right or with wealthy parents. H
(4) The daughters of wealthy families. H
(5) Married men who go out for "a good H
time" especially when away from home. H
(6) Wealthy people with family skeletons.' H
Burns describes their methods of procedure, H
many of which are liable to catch and involve, al- H
most all vain men and silly women. These crea- H
tures of the higher class of both sexes live at H
fashionable hotels, keep automobiles, are often
accomplished singers and dancers. And they can H
