ilrttger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. II. NO. 279
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, AUGUST 5, 191G.
CorwonT, 1910, i tor rcxuo Lzooit Coxwiir.
Ittmring
t
CALEDONIAN CHIEFTAINS LEAD CLAN TO DAY OF SPORTS
nrir '$mt . -.. v..w hr13l.
Mta ' i tr nrn- - - v, .;.;--- 'fna r
The fifty-second annual Scottish gnmes of the Caledonian Club are heing held at Central Park today,
turc arc seen, from left to right, Fourth Chieftain Alexander Nicol, First Chieftain Adam Simpson,
ander Graham and Third Chieftain Alexander Tulloch.
PARALYSIS KILLS
2 MORE INFANTS;
MILD QUARANTINE
Health Inspectors Called
Back From Vacations to
Watch Incoming Trains
TO RAISE BARS TUESDAY
New Features in Spread
of Paralysis Epidemic
TWO deaths and one new case re
ported today.
Seventy-two cases and 1C deaths
since July 1.
Quarantine against children un
der 16 years old coming from New
York or New Jersey partly in ef
fect today, to be "rigidly enforced
Tuesday, giving travelers and com
muters Sunday and Monday to ad
just themselves to the order.
Chief Medical Inspector Cairns, of
Bureau of Health, recalls all in
spectors now on vacations to report
for the quarantine Monday morning.
Infantile paralysis caused two deaths tn
Philadelphia and ons in Camden today.
Those, -who died In this city were George
Qentel, 3 years old, 4613 Greene street, Ger
mantown, and Joseph Beneskl, S years old,
(21 South American street, rear.
The death In Camden was the third
fatality In that city. The victim -was
year-old Rose Colonics, of 330 Line street.
She was brought to the Municipal Hospital
last night and died a few hours later. This
was the ninth caso recorded In Camden dur
ing the eptdemlo.
PREVENTIVE STEPS.
Officers of the State Department of
Health will make a tour of the border
roads between Pennsylvania and surround
ing States tomorrow and establish posts
where quarantine guards are to work.
These positions will not be made publjo,
the Health Department wanting to keep
the Information from persons who may
scheme to dodge the guards. The quaran
tine will be tightened by telephone and
telegraph service. Guards will be notified
rnjles ahead of the approach of persons
nuig In and out of the State.
In Philadelphia Inspectors and guards
will be stationed at the depots of the Penn
sylvania, Reading and Baltimore and Ohio
JUllroads. They will also be stationed at
th ferry landings.
Mere statements from physicians will
hot be accepted as passports. Arriving
children must be passed upon by officials
of the Board of Health or State Depart
ment of Health. One-day certificates will
fce Issued to persons going to points outside
the State that have not been affected by the
Oisease. This will alow persons to make
Mips to Atlantlo City and such places to
Pend the day.
Further steps to prevent the spread of
4 Continued on l'aso Two, Column Six
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
p ?fr PhitofolpM and vicinity
rartly cloudy and continued warm to
Umj and Sunday; decreasing humidity
Sunday; light southerly winds, becom
ing westerly,
LENGTH OF DAY
'SSL'S?! i?-p3 . m. I Moon ri.. 0:50 p. m.
oane t . 7 I0p,m I Mooa south. 4:32 p. m.
DEL.WABE HIVKn TIDE CHANGES
B CHESTNUT STREET
C& .V.ViS.'?i? m.Hsh tr. 8:01 p. m.
r " Ur 12:4V a in. 1 Low water. 123 a. tn.
VJEM1'EBj1TDBK AT KAC1I 110UK
(fCfl i6TnTIgTrr 2 1 31 4-s
iCOai 78 n I SO 8l 1 ' ) I
Read "The Private
INCIPIENT RIOTS
MARK NEW YORK
CARMEN'S STRIKE
Trouble Most Pronounced
Among Crowds on
Est Side
NEARLY 6000 QUIT WORK
Statistics of New York's
Great Street Car Strike
MEN employed 17,000
Number on strike 5,770
LINES AFFECTED
New York Railways Company.
Yonkers Railway Company.
Westchester Electric Company.
Second Avenue Line.
Third Avenue Line.
Union Railways Company
(Bronx) .
Passengers carried daily on these
lines estimated at 2,COO,000.
UNAFFECTED
Subways and elevated lines.
NEW YORK, Aug. 5. Incipient riot
ing and hundreds of acts of petty violence
marked the opening today of the latest de
velopment In the biggest street-car strike
In the history of America's greatest city.
Greatest trouble In operating the few
cars running was experienced In the heart
of the crowded East Side, where many of the
strikers live. On Essex, Delancey, Clinton
and Grand Btroets and sections of the Bow
ery enormous crowds of women, boys, men
Continued on Paie Two. Column SI
CAPTAIN'S WIFE DIES
AS HE SPEEDS HOME
Mrs. Samuel G. Barnard Sue-
cumbs as Husband Rushes
From Border
Captain Samuel O. Barnard," commander
of. Company B, New Jersey Field Artillery,
who left El Paso, Tex., where his command
Is quartered, on Thursday night. In an
effort to reach the bedside of his critically
111 wife, has lost his race with death.
Mrs. Barnard died this morning at the
home of her slater, at 8534 North Gratz
street. Captain Barnard is racing across
country as fast as express trains can carry
him, but he is not expected to arrive in this
cty until tomorrow.
Mrs. Barnard knew that her husband
was coming to see her, and she fought off
j..ih wih every ounce of strength she could
.muster. Her last words were a wish to see
Captain Barnard was notified of his wife's
serious Illness on Thursday. He Immedi
ately made application for a 10-day leave
of absence. This was granted, and he
started his race with death that night Mrs.
Barnard was 111 when Captain Barnard left
for the Mexican border, but she urged him
to accompany Ms regiment, believing that
she would soon be better.
However, she grew rapidly worse until
her condition became critical
The Barnard home la In Wenonah, N. X,
but Mrs. Barnard was removed to the home
of her sister, Mrs. Charlos Wilson, at the
Gratz street address when her condition
showed no signs of Improvement.
Mrs. Barnard was Miss Mae Dunn, be
fore her marriage 15 year?-ago. Bernlce. a
13-year-old daughter three sisters and a
brother survive her.
Mrs. Barnard is said to have been suffer-
'"Arrangements' for the funeral will not
be made until Captain Barnard arrives.
War," a Thrilling Romance of Intrigue, Which Begins on Page 7 of
f , ?
In the pic
Chief Alex-
NO $50,000 OFFER
FOR H0RNSBY SAYS
MILLER HUGGINS
Ebbets Never Made Direct
Bid to Owners for Star,
Avers Cards' Manager
NO CHANCE TO BUY HIM
By CHANDLER D. RICHTER
"There's nothing to the rumors and re
ports that Charley Ebbets, of the Brooklyn
Club, mado tho Cardinals an offer of $50,
000, 320,000, or even $5 for Roger Hornsby,
my youthful shortstop, who has performed
so brilliantly In his first year In the big
league," said Miller Hugglns, manager of
St. Louis, this morning.
"Ebbets may have made tho remark to a
few of his friends hut no offer evor was
received by tho Cardinals. The Brooklyn
owner was badly In need of a shortstop and
as I have about the best one In the league
It Is no wonder that he cast longing eyes
this way. Ebbets Is a great publicity getter
and seeker and ho probably realized that
If he made an off-hand crack that ho would
give $50,000 for Hornsby he would be sure
to see his namo In display type.
"But there Is no chanco to get him. The
Cardinals are building up, not tearing down,
and as I have one of the most promising
Inflelders In the big leagues I would be
very foolish to part with him. It also has
been reported that the Braves were seek
ing Frank Snyder, our reliable catcher,
but It Is useless for tho other teams to try
and pick off my stars.
"It Is a certainty, though, that If Brook.
Continued on Tnco Ten, Column Three
HUGHES OFF ON 10,000
MILE TRIP FOR VOTES
G. O. P. Candidate Accompanied
by Wife Whose Judgment
He Values
BIWDGEHAMPTON, L. I Aug. 5.
Charles Evans Hughes, Republican candi
date, and Mrs. Charles Evans Hughes,
the candidate's adviser, left here today on
a 10,000-mllo stumping tour, which will
carry them from coast to coast. The Re
publican nominee expects to make nearly
two score Bpeeches In such cities as De
troit, Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Fargo
and Grand Forks, North Dakota; Helena,
Butte and Missoula, Mont. ; Spokane and
Seattle, Wash. ; Coeur d'Alene, Idaho; Port
land, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Reno
Ogden, Salt Lake City, Cheyenne, Denver,
Topeka, Kan. ; Kansas Glty, St. Louis, Lex
ington, Ky., and several points in Maine.
He will not be back in New York until
about September 10.
Never before in the history of politics
has a presidential candidate been accom
panied on a speaking tour by his wife.
But Mrs. Hughes is almost an oracle In tho
family cf the former Justice. Her husband
consults frequently with her, values her
opinion of people and things, and on this
occasion, when he is seeking the presidency,
he is more than ever anxious to draw upon
her advice. Friends of the nominee sug
gest Hughes's championship of woman's
suffrage came about through his apprecia
tion of the feminine mind as exemplified by
Mrs. Hughes.
NEW YORK, Aug. 5. Charles Evans
Hughes today held a final conference here
preliminary to his departure tonight for
Niagara Falls on the first leg of his across-the-contlnent
trip.
FRENCH TROOPS
CRUSH ATTACKS
ON VERDUN LINE
Germans Fail to Retake
Fleury-Thiaumont Po
sitions on Meuse
FIGHT LASTS ALL NIGHT
Battle for Stronghold Raging
With All Its Original
Intensity
PARIS, Aug. 5.
All night long the mighty engagement
northenst of Verdun raged In tho darkness
with tho Gormans engaged In a tremendous
effort to recapture Thlnumont work and
Floury, both of which they lost to tho
French troops of Gcncrnl Ntvrllo on Fri
day. In splto of the fury of the assaults
nnd the reported efforts, nil tho German at
tacks wore repulsed, tho War OUlce an
nounced officially nt noon.
The fourth day of the battle on the
Flcury-Thlnumont lino found the fighting
rnglnff with all its original Intensity.
When tho Infantry was not nttacked tho
big guns wero flaming on both Bides, pound
ing the positions with many tons of steel.
Tho War Office, In Ub communique, Btntcd
that tho position at Flcury was unchanged,
adding that tho combat there continues,
however.
Tho powerful positions of Floury and
Thlnumont changed hands threo times In
24 hours. First the French secured tho
positions from the Germans, but by means
of violent counter-attacks tho Germans
wero nblo to win back moat of their lost
ground. After heavy cannonading, French
forces wero Hung forward with tho bayonet
and tho Germans wero again driven out.
Tho text of tho oillclal communlquo
follows:
On the Somme front the night was
comparntlcly cnlm.
Between Avre and tho Alsne wo dis
persed sovral patrol forces and took
somo prisoners.
On tho right bank of tho Meuse the
cannonade was violent in the cntlro
sectors of Thlaumont and Fleury. Tho
Germans attempted, with furious counter-attacks,
to drlvo us out of Thlau
mont work. We occupy It firmly. Tho
battle lasted from 8 o'clock last night
until this morning, causing heavy lossos
to tho enemy, who was repulsed lu
every attack without succeeding In
gaining tho slightest ndvnntnge.
The combat has continued with cqua)
violence at tho village of Fleury with
out any appreciable change In the sit
uation. The artillery duel continues In
termittently in the sectors on the right
bank.
East of Pont-a-Mousson, after artil
lery preparation, tho Germans launched
against our positions nt Fucq Forest
an attack which was checked by our
machlno-gun fire.
In aviation activities on the Sofnme
front our aerial squadrons fought sev
eral combats. In the course of which
enemy machines were damaged and fell
within their lines. Two other Ger
man aeroplanes were brought down in
the Verdun region. One fell near
Avocourt, tho other In the environs of
Moranvlllc.
BRITISH SMASH GERMAN
POSITIONS ON FRONT ONE MILE
LONG IN NEW ASSAULT
LONDON", Aug. 5 British troops on tho
Somme front, by a smashing stroke, hav
broken through tho main Becond line de
fenses of the Germans for more than a mllo
at Pozleres, it was announced today by tho
British War Office.
The assaults at Pozleres were made after
a violent bombardment of the German po
sitions north of tho village.
Then the Infantry swept forward last
night, capturing the second line defenslvo
Continued on raze Two, Column Four
N0RRIST0WN RESIDENT
DROWNS IN SCHUYLKILL
Went Bathing After Eating
Heavy Meal and Meets
Death
NORRISTOWN, Pa,, Aug. 5. Arthur
Fisher, a former Phltadelphlan lately re
siding in Norrlstown, was drowned today
in the Schuylkill River several miles from
here. Fisher came to Norrlstown from
Philadelphia recently to accept employment
as a moulder at the Harrison Safety Boiler
Works. His wife died a week ago and Is
survived by three daughters.
He was on a day's furlough and went on
a fishing excursion on the banks of the
Schuylkill. He was accompanied by Harry
Groff, of Norrlstown, a fellow workman.
When the fish failed to bite Fisher went
In for a swim. He wa3 an expert Bwlmmer
and was giving instructions In a difficult
stroke to 10-year-old Harold Ballard, of
Toronto. The lad had left the water when
the man suddenly became ill. He uttered
a cry and his body disappeared. It was
recovered and hour later by a party of
Philadelphia canoeists. The dead man lived
on Penn street, below Barbadoes, In Norrls
town, and was about 40 years old.
His death is attributed to acute indiges
tion. He and his companion had eaten a
heavy meal before he entered the water.
FEWER DEATHS IN NEW YORK
Sharp Decrease in Victims and Attacks
of Epidemic
NEW YORK, Aug- 6. A slight decrease
in deaths and new cases In the infantile
paralysis epidemic is noted in the figures
Issued by the Health Department today.
The death numbered 41. and new cases,
168. The totals now are: Deaths, 1068 ;
cases. Hit.
QUICK
ST. LOUIS 0 0
PHILLIES: .... 00
Watson nnd Snyder; Alexander nnd Killefef,
NATIONAL LEAGUE
CINCINNATI O O O O O O
BOSTON, 1st g O OOOOO
Schneider nnd Clark; Tyler and Blackburn.
r: r-tmsoH O OOOOOO
BROOKLYN, Htg..O O 1 O 1 O O
Cooper nnd Schmidt; Mmqucird nud Meyers-
JEALOUS MAN OF 63 SHOOTS HIS "WIFE
BOSTON, Aug. 5. Crazed by jealousy and seeking revenge,
Vincenzo Scherlco, 63 years old, shot and probably fatally wounded
his wife before hundreds of persons In North Square today. The quick
action of Sergeant James Wright and Patrolman Michael Walsh pro
vented Scherlco from killing himself with tho revolver.
EIGHT-HOUR DAY FOR MEXICAN RAILWAY MEN
EL PASO, Tex., Aug. 5. An eight-hour day for employes cu all
Mexican railways has been instituted as one of a scries of moves
for tho betterment of conditions among tho working classes, according
to a message from Mexico City received hero today.
ORDERED TO BRISTOL TO FIGHT INFANTILE PARALYSIS
HARPvISBURG, Aug. 5. State Pire Marshal G. Chalport today
ordered a representative of his department to go to Bristol Monday
and nsslst in the clean-up of the town, which was ordered by Com
missioner of Health Dixon because of tho outbreak of Infantile par
alysis. GERMAN PLANES AGAIN ATTACK RUSSIAN AERO STATION
BERLIN, Aug- ,5. "Gorman hydroplnncs again attacked the
Russinn aero station at Arensburg Wednesday morning, obtaining
' several hits on establishments," the Admiralty announced today.
"Russian battle planes ascended without success. Tho German raiders
returned unharmed."
CITY TAKES ARCH STREET PROPERTIES FOR PARKWAY
Tho city has taken title to the property, 1514 Arch street, lot 22 feet by 150
feet, from tho Fidelity Trust Company, trustee, for a price of $39,600. The assessed
valuation Is $30,000. The city has also taken title from the Philadelphia Trust
Company, executor, to tho property 1506 Arch street, lot 22 feet by 146 feet 8 inches.
Tho assessed valuation is $30,000. Both lots wero purchased for tho Parkway.
SHORTAGE OF ANTHRACITE COAL FEARED NEXT WINTER
A shortage of hard coal next winter is likely, according to a statement Issued
by tho Anthracite Bureau of Information, with headquarters at Wilkes-Barre.
This prediction Is based on the shortage of labor in the mines, the decrease in the
percentage of domestic coal produced compared with the total output, the almost
total lack of stocks in the storage yards and the decrease in production which is
frequently caused in winter by weather conditions.
BIG SHIPMENT OF STEEL CARS FROM THIS PORT TO FRANCE
About 4000 tons of Bteels cars, tho first part of a C0,000-ton order diverted
to this port fiom Canada, will be shipped to France on the British steamship
Camlake. which arrived here yesterday from Madeira, This is the largest single
steel order handled through the port of Philadelphia and shipping men regard
it as a tribute to the city because It has enough municipally owned wharves to
accommodate new business.
SUFFRAGISTS TO RAISE $500,000 CAMPAIGN FUND
NEW YORK, Aug. 6. The Woman's party plans to raise a campaign fund of
$500,000 to be used In the campaign against President Wilson. Mrs. O. H. P. Bel
mont left today for Newport, where she will appeal to a number" of wealthy women
for contributions. Many of the suffragists are Democrats, but they have placed
suffrage above party and have declared for Hughes, A definite statement, however,
will not be made until the meeting' of the leaders in Colorado Springs August 10.
CHAMPION TRAPSHOOTER IN CRITICAL CONDITION
WILMINGTON, Del., Aug. 5. Paralysis of Intestines has developed In the case
of Alden B. Richardson, champion trapshooter, who accidentally shot himself at
Dover. At Delaware Hospital, whero he has been since the accident, he was re
ported today to be Jn very critical condition.
MAN HUNT IN MICHIGAN FOR AUTO BANDITS
DETROIT, Mich., Aug. 5. The biggest man hunt of years is on in Detroit and
vicinity, Although 100 detectives, policemen and deputy sheriffs have combed the
southern part of the State for the auto bandits who held up the pay car of-the
Burroughs' Adding Machine Company yesterday, making away with $32,500, after
shooting Rudolph Copper, a guard, no definite clue has been found.
FEDERAL BRIDGES FOR SUSQUEHANNA
WASHINGTON, Aug, 5. The Senate today passed two bllla authorizing1 the
construction of bridges1 across navigable waters in Pennsylvania. The Commis
sioners of Lycoming County are authorized by one of the bills; to build a. bridge
across the West Branch of the Susquehanna River from the foot of Arch street,
WHllamsport, to Dubolstown. The other is for a bridge across the same stream
from Montgomery, Lycoming County, to Muncy Creole township. Both bills were
approved by the War Department.
"ALFALFA BILL" BEATEN, OKLAHOMA RETURNS SHOW
OKLAHOMA CITY. Okla., Aug. 5. Judge T. D. MoKeown, of Ada, will Bucceed
"Alfalfa Bill" Murray in Congress. Almost complete returns show that the pic
turesque Representative from Tlshomlns has been defeated for the Democratic nom
ination, which Is equivalent to election.
NEWS
Today's Issue of
PB1QB ONE CENT
P. R. T. WON'T MEET
MEN THREATENING
CARMEN'S STRIKE
President Mitten Will Diss
cuss Demands With Em
ployes' Board Only I
TERMS OF UNION DEMAND
Mitten's Letter Refusing
to Deal With Carmen
Mr. Harry F. Flynn, President,
232 North Ninth street,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Sir Replying to your letter of
August 4, would say that tho com
pany's position in this matter re
mains as set forth to you in my
letter of May 22, 191G, viz:
This company is now dealing di
rectly with its motormen nnd con
ductors through tho Co-operative
Committee, the members of which
have been elected by the affirmative
vote of over 75 per fent of the
motormen nnd conductors.
This management, 'cannot, there
fore, receive your committee, nor
will it discuss tho affairs of the
men with any other than the duly
elected members of its Co-opcrntivo
Committee, Yours, etc.,
T. E. MITTEN, President.
On receipt of this letter, Flynn
said ho would call a strike. Asked
if he would call aatrike immedi
ately, he replied :
"Well, it won't bo days."
Thomas E. Mitten, president of the Phil
adelphia Rapid Transit Company, this
afternoon replied to the ultimatum of Di
vision No. 477, Amalgamated Aosoclation
of Streot Railway Employes. This ulti
matum was that Mr. Mitten should grant
tho demands of. tho men for an Increase In
pay from 31 to 40 cents per hour or consont
to confor with them, the ultimatum, statins:
that refusal to do oithet one of these two
things would result in an immedlato order
to strike. , .
Mr. Mittens' answer was a flat refusal
olther to grant the demands or to meet
with tho union ofTlcora. He reiterated his
position mode public In an earlier letter to
Harry f. Flynn, president of the carmen's
union, in which ho announced that the
management would deal with its men only
through tho Co-operative Committee of Em
ployes. MEANS A STRIKE.
Upon receiving Mr. Mitten's letter, re
fusing all the demands of Uio carmen, Mr.
Flynn declared a Btrike would be called.
When asked If tho strike would be called
In a few hours Mr. Flynn replied: '
"Well, it won't bo days."
The letter from Mr. Mitton follows:
Mr. Harry F. Flynn, President, j
232 North Ninth street, '
Philadelphia, Pa.
Sir Replying to your letter of Au
gust 4, would say that the company's
position In this matter remains as set
forth to you In my letter of May 22,
1916. viz:
This company la now dealing directly
with Its motormen and conductor
through tho Co-operative Committee,
the members of which have been
elected by the affirmative vote of
more than 75 per cent of the motormen
and conductors.
This management cannot, therefore,
receive your committee, nor will It dla
cuhs the affairs of the men with any
other than the duly elected members
of Its Co-operative Committee.
Tours, eta, .
T. E. MITTEN, President.
LETTER TO P. R. T. HEAD.
The following letter was sent to Mr. Mit
ten today:
Thomas E. Mitten.
Dear Sir Falling to secure an inter
view with you, a mass-meeting of your
employes was held on August 3, at
which time we decided to make certain
demands on you for Improved labor
conditions. In the event that you still
refuse to give the poor courtesy of an
Interview, or If you refuse to grant the
demands or possibly do not acknowl
edge even the receipt thereof, then the
union has decided to order strike at
once of ail your employes.
HARimF. FLYNN.
Early this afternoon Flynn said that a
strike would be called In two hours or ten
hours. This was later modified by the re
marks that "it would not be days" befors
the call.
"We have complete arrangements," he
said." Men are statione'd at the carbarns
and we will notify them when we are
ready. When the strike order is Issued 30
per cent, of the cars will stop running."
DEMANDS OF MEN.
President Flynn says that 63 per cent
of the entire number of carmen belong to
the union, but the company declares that
the union embraces only 15 per cent of its
employes. The demands of the union are;
Forty cents a hour.
Recognition of the union.
Abolition of all swing runs.
All grievances to be adjusted through
committees of the union.
All members of the union to be al
lowed to wear their union buttons while
on duty,
A total of 6200 motormen and conductors
are employed by the transit company. The
company says that about 4600 of this total
are loyal supporters of the co-operative
plan. On the other hand, Flynn contends
that at least 4500 of the men will back the
demands of the union.
SCALE OF WAGES.
Under the Mitten co-operative plan the
maximum pay of the motormen and con
ductors is 31 cents an hour; the minimum
Is 26 cents. It is estimated that about one
thousand five hundred men are receiving ths
maximum pay. Under the Mitten plajj a,
motorman or conductor starts, in at the min
imum of 2 cents and Jt takes hint six
years to reach the maximum 31 cents.
The wages of the motormen and conduc
tors now average IS cents per hour, and tfef
average daily work period U a llttf more
than nine hours. ''Union equals complain
that because the system 'gt ewlns rum Is
force, under the MittfR plan' the, majority o
the men are on. duty.falthoulch. not coutiwu
ousiy, virtually 15 to 18 hours dally. "
complaint is declared not Jo b an j.gs3m4
representation, or toe true zacut vy isa i
pany.
Evening Ledger
'
.Ma&&3ii Jjtgt.
