WEATHER
H(*4-TIT FAIB TO-1.AT AT4T* TO-MOB
-;),,\ <?T?rriT?nra_? wakm. iiottt
?H>|-TH WIXIJ4V
i on n_?Brt ?? Twaw* ia.
~?bbb*-^ J~ ,-cf t%i T.#
Jlrilwtne
CIRCULATION
Over 100,000 Daily
Net Paid, Non-Returnable
First to Last?the Truth: News ? Editorials ? Advertisements
Vou LXXVI No. 2M65.
|< or..fia>:l lBia?
The Trihune Aaa'n.)
SATURDAY, AUGU8T 6, 101(?.
a * ?
^^^w. /.I'V'p In >ew York ?"l?r. >ew?rk.
J*r.er t Uy a_?l H?>b*_?_.
AW _ra?#t Car Men Go Out On Strike
FRENCH SWEEP
FT. THUHIONT
AND FLEURY
Hold Verdun Defen
ces That Changed
Hands Thrice.
GERMANS KEEP UP
F1ERCE STRUGGLE
Have Lost in Three Days
Ground it Took a
Month to Win.
By ARTHl R S. DRAPER.
London. Aug. 4.-Joffre,s rrren are.
Maaan at of a hlood-auined
<r.p Of p 0 'i three rrriles long and
about 8 mile deep. just north of Ver
have won from the
_na in one of the most hotly
fought hatttea ai the long struggle
.. Meu*.e. In their three-day
re they have conquered ground
which ' *? CroWB Pnnce's
a~-.y over fcur weeks to wrest from
The chief points won are the ruinB
of Fleury. the fort of
TUtn-MBl and the ridge in the wood
: Vaeheraoville. To-day's fighting
red around Thiaumont and
:y, the points where the Ger
n.ans'had pushed their lines nearest
Om shell-battered ruins which
r>aea the great fortress of Ver
Roth pVaces changed handa
three times in the last twenty-four
hours. but to-night the poilus hold
l ;io!e of the fort and most of the
wn.
Desperate (iernian counter at
are atlD being made, as they
? .ade ever since the Freneh
.e began. Again and again the
B n Prinee threw forward masses
f hi? best troops to regain the
d for which Germany paid such
.-cering price. Often they suc
:, for a time at least. The
Freneh were driven from Fleury.
thOM who had occupied Thiau
ejao had'to retreat at risk of
.- cut off.
New AsaaaltB ln Vain.
the Gerrrran regiments
chargei. hoping In the confusion of
?. neh retreat to regain trenches
tha previous two days' fight
But the new assaults were in
and late to-day the Freneh
?prang out and drove the
"i the town and the fort.
then the most desperate drlves
'ailed, but the Germans have
..or, up hope of winning
baek these positions.
The casualties on both sides have
?orrifie, but the Freneh insist
? Crrmans have suffered more
y than themselves. The Ger?
man counter attacks have heen fre
furious. and regiment af
BM ? t has withered away un
r.f the Krench guns and
In the territory captured the ef
the r rench shells have been
rf ilead and dying,
uhile *he harrages have made es
? >r the defendera of many of
the poata impossible. The Freneh
have alao captured 2,178 undounded
that the Germans' guns
have beer less effective is shown in
the Freneh foat of bringing eighty
arith them when they
retreated the first time from Thiau
All France Rejolcing.
The aneceaa of the drive has caused
rrjoicing throughout
Prinee. even more than did the vic
? -he Somme. Verdun has
?en a magic narne to the Freneh
thou_h dur?ng the height
0 fthe (ierman attaekl there the nation
endure the loss
u ithout flinching, the ,
Bt the danger is over and
i iron grip of the Hohenaollerns i
' e looaened has caused a joy
?'hich can only be exceeded by the final j
london, too, the Freneh sueeess i?
? ght. The capture of |
? il the ftnl fruit of the new
'rench offensive, ar.d is proof of a!
-'? and a vitality in her armies
*h?ch had hardly been hoped for by
rga however well the
Jl'ah eommand knew the facts. It had
been accepted tha: France had done
** ihare m holding the line until the
r"'-b ea and Britain hs.i
?ask of turning
fact that France
J at |Cn niagr.ificent
, rideaee that
leiat offensive mav not he so long,
'Hy, as had been expected.
'?>? ?uccfss of rhe Freneh drive.
?"?aUau*.
?u wa-a *v i?l.
'Tom Brown> of Sing Sing
Is Favor ed for Governor
Senator Wagner Tells Murphy and His Upstate Allies
That He Doesn't Wish Nomination, and Osborne
Is Talked Of for Place.
Thoma* M. Osborne, warden of Sing;
Sing Pnson.wa* *eriou*ly di*cus?ed Ml
a possibihty for the Democratic nomina- ,
tion for (iovernor at another confer- i
ence here yesterday, in which (harles
F. Murphy and hi* upstate allies took
part. Mr. Osborne'* name came up be
fore the conference after SenBtor Rob
ert Wagner, who?e nomination had
been agreed on, made a pathetic plea
that be be eliminated a* a candidate.
The same group of Pemocratic lead
er* took part in yesterday'* confab, and
the upstate men especially were re
luctant to heed Senator Wagner'* plea. |
Neverthele**, when he told the confer
rees that, loyal organization man that
he was, he did not relish the job of be?
ing saorifieed, Mr. Osborne'* name was
brought into the discussion.
Candidate Hard to Flnd.
The second day'* conference of the
Democratic leader* developed the fact
that Murphy and hi* chief political
lieutenant* are irrevoeably opposed to
the nomination of Ju*tlce Seabury.
Their chief difnculty now ia in finding
a candidate with which to heat him,
and they are having all kinds of
trouble. Senator Wagner at the con
faiaaaa ye*terday endeavored to im
press upon the conferree* the fact that
he did not want the nomination for,
Governor, and would take it only if it
came in the form of a command from
the organization.
Hii chief ambition has been to go on
SHACKLETON BACK; I
FAILS IN RESCUE TRIP
Explorer's Second Attempt to
Reaeh Comrades Vairt
London. Aug. *.- Lieutenant Sir1
Ernest Sbockleton ha* afain failed to
rescue the main body of hi* AnUretie
expedition left on F.lephant Irland. la
the South Shetland group, say* "The
Daily Chronicle," and has returned to
the Falkland Island*.
Sir Ernest returned on board the
steamer Emma. says a Reuter dispatch
from Port Stanley. The ship wa*
' foreed baek by heavy gales and ice,
I and it wa* found impo**ible to get
! near F.lephant Ialand through the pack
I ice The ship was battered, the en
jengincs injured and the Emma wa*
1 obliged to rroceed under aail.
Bi, Ernest, the corre.pondentadds.
recogni.e. that it i* useless to ?ttmept
to force a paaaage with a llght ahlB,
I ind hc ft waitmg for the steamer D.s
covery to come from England.
Sir Ernest Shackleton has made two
attempts to rescue the mair.body of
his expedition. compnaing twent>-two
nien. which was left on llephant Is 1
ant wher. Shackleton and five of hia
; rnen aSrtaaJ out in se.rch of a.d last
' APs!r Ernest left Monte,video on .lure
, r for F.lephant Ialand. and returrieriI to
: Port Stanley on Junc 25. He imrne
diatelv organized another relief ex
! pedit on and sailed from Punta Arenas
Thi on July 19. The last report of
t the aBBBBitioB. rece.ved from Bueno*
A,r.B on July 26, said that tne Emma
had reached the ice nelds of the Ant
arctic region*. _
SON CiAXI^'GOOD"
BEATS HIS MOTHER
??So Good He Deserves Spank
ing." Says Judge.
Morria Ruben*t*in, who said he wa*
a junior- in Fordham College. was ar
raigned for disorderly conduct in night
I court last night on the complaint of
hi* mother.
"Did you strike your mother *n I
leavc those bruii.es on her faee"" de
! manded Magistrate Groehl.
"Yes. I did." admitted young Ruben
Btaifl "but my meal? had not been
seried regularly. J hadn't eatrn ifl
twentv-four hour*.
?Anv boy, college atudent or not
who ooea a thing like that ihould get
six month* in the workhouse. said
Magistrate Groehl. ?
"Heft a good boy, your honor, *BBt
in Mr* Helen Ruben*tein, the com
1 plainant, "don't sent him away.
"Heft the kind of a good boy that
deserves a *ound spank.ng. declared
the magistrate. . .
At the mother1* request he remanded
Morns until h.s oa<e could be tovaatl
gated by a probation ???*';.. "' T\'J
Ee aentenced Monday and w,!l May ir
jail meant.me. He .? twenty-one years
old and lixai at 558 East ltlflt Street.
The Bronx. __
IN WILrREMEMBERS
BLIND GERMAN TROOPS
juggler Leaves Household Goods
to Fund for Victims.
Paul Hutt. a vaudevillc strong man
and weight juggler. who died on July
IS. left his household effecta to blind
soldiers of the German army. In his
will. tiled yesterday in the Surrogate.s'
court, he said: "I dirert th*' the enf.ro
content* of my apartment at 6 \crch
tesgiaden StraflBB, Herlin, including
?*? arorhl 0< ?rt. furniture and houso
hold effects. be sold and the proceedi
?iven to the Blind German Soldiers
Fund of Berim, or, if no such fund
exi*t?. that the proeeeds be applie-j to
improving the eondition of the blind
German ?oldier?."
the Supreme Court bench, but thia haa
been shattered. In view of this, It is
known he would prefer to run for Sen?
ator again and retain hia plate bs
PemocrBtie leader there. Senator Wag
ner's friends are doubtful cf his ability
to defest Governor Whiiman for re
election, and they deelare that if nnmi
nated for Governor and defeated for
election his political career would end.
The Senator, they aay, is too young to
suffer such a fate.
Wagner Still In Race.
Nevertheless, Senator Wagner Ian't
out of the race for the Pemocratic
nomination for Ooiernor by any means,
despire the discussion of the name of
Mr. Osborne. It ia likely that no defi
nite decision will be reached as to the
Pemocratic slate until the Pemocrats
meet in conference at Saratoga next
week. As it shapes up now the fight
for the nomination for Governor is be?
tween Senator Wagner and Justice Sea?
bury. with Mr. Osborne as a strong
possibility.
Tammany and its allies are for Wag?
ner, but if they have to shift the Sing
Sing warden has an exeellent char.ce.
Justice Seabury. H was said yesterday,
wiil not make a fight for the nomina?
tion unless Murphy Bnd his organiza?
tion support him. This information
came from Tammany men. but lt la
contrarv to the statements of ( ounty
Clerk William Srhneider and other
friends of the justice. They deelare
that Mr. Seabury will be a candtdate at
the Pemocratic. primanes whether Mur?
phy supports him or not.
COPS SPURN CAR LINES
15-CENTLUNCHCHECKS
"They Want No Handouts,"
Commissioner Woods's Opinion.
Is 16 cents enough for a cop's lunch?
Is 30 cents too mueh?
Division Manager Carrigan, of the
Third Avenue lines in The Bronx,
raised both questions yesterday morn?
ing when, after is.suing checks to po?
licemen on strike duty good for 80
cent lunehes, he notified the company's
office that he had done so.
Then things began to happen.
General Manager Maher sent back
orders to canrel the checks and issue
new ones for 15 cents, that, in his opin?
ion, being enough for any policeman
t.. spend for midday refreshment
an opinion the police were so sure was
wrong that they refused to accept them.
. .,mmi?sioner Woods then stepped
in and decided that Carrigan. Maher
end all tha policemen interested were
wrong.
"New York cops want handouts from
nobody," was the central thought in
his communication to Chief Inspector
Schmittberger. The patrolmen'B
thoughts on the matter eould not be
printed by any newspaper with a
family rirculation.
UPHOLDS NORDICA WILL
CUTTING OFF HUSBAND
Court's Ruling Gives Singer's
Sisters Million-Dollar Estate.
Mme. Lilliaa Nordica's million-dollar
estate will pass to her three sisters, in?
stead of her husband, George VV.
Young, it became known yesterday.
when Judge I_wrenee in Freehold. N.
J., admitted to probate the will barring
all claim, made by the singer's husband.
Since Mme. Nordica's death the
light between her sisters and her hus?
band over the bulk of the estate has
raged bittcrly. Soon after the singer's
death Mr. Young filed in New Jersey
the 1910 will. in which Mme. Nordica
left him the greater portion of her
property, and simultaneouslv counsel
for the three sisters filed in New York
the will made near Thursday Island,
on board the stcamer Tasman, just be?
fore the singer's death.
It il this latter document which the
court now declares the legal one. With
the exception of a few minor bequests,
aggregating in the neighborhood of
840,000, all of Mme Nordica's propertv
Ineluding iewela said to be worth
over Sf.OO.OOO is left to Mrs. Imogene
Castillo, of Los Angeles; Mrs. Annie
Haidwin. of Porchester, Mass., and Mrs
Ione Walker. A paragraph in the docu?
ment aaya:
"In this distribution of my estate I
am not forgetful of my husband. to
whom I have advanced over $400,000
in cash. which I rstimate is the full. or
more than full, share to which he might
be entitled "
-?
BALTIMORE STILL
EXPECTS BREMEN
Sympathi/ers Silent. but Return
Cargo Awails Her.
[P> Tneirarh t" The rriMjnf I
Baltimore. Aug. 4. The Bremen ia
coming that is all either German sym
pathiaera or Captain Hinsch of the
Neckar would say to-day. They w.ll
not aay abaolutely that she is coming
to this port. But there is every indi
op'e'n K-8."'
i, ou
g P*
:oTouVs,de;fanimpo,sibil.tvofget.
?j past the Britiah patrol, which does
not aooear to exist. for the second .ub
marmer t.k.ag * chance at 8-1 other
port.
HINDENBURG
PLANS DRIVE
ON PETROGRAD
,_
London Hears Attack
Will BeLaunched fronj
Baltic Provinces.
TO MOVE MANY
SOLDIERS NORTH
Campaign Believed To Be
Designed to Relieve
Pressurc on Galicia.
By ARTIU'R B. DRA.PFR.
London, Aug. 4. Coincident with the
ajsumption by von Hindenburg of the
supreme command on the Eastern '
front, the German war council ha* de- j
tcrmined that the fleld marshal *hall
take an immediate offensive again?t
Petrograd, in hope of forcing th* !
abandonment of the Engli?h drive. !
Thi* news came to I.ondon through :
Europcan neutral rhannel* to-night, .
and caused many discussion* in mili- ,
tary rircleg throughout the city. So
many *tartling and unexpeeted moves |
has the (larman hiffh command made
in the two years of the war that every
. fresh report is cagorly seized upon
I .
, here.
The proposed drive will be made
from the Baltic provinee*, it i? under
' stnod, with Riga as the base of oper
' ation*. Hindenburg will be given a \
j free hand and allowed to prosecute ;
1 the drive on the Russian eapital at the '
j expense, if neeessary, of territorial
I lo**e* to the Teutonic armie* in the
I ,
I jouth.
| That he will risk the weakening of
1 the Austro-German line* ir. Volhynia
1 and Galicia by transferring any large
number of troop* to the .lorth is
doubted by eritics here Army men are i
extremily skeptiral, too. of the pos- ;
sible ?uec*ss of any German move- j
| ment in the north which does not con
; template the strengtheninjr of the pre?
ent German forces there.
Moat Have More Men.
It is pointed out that r?cent devel-1
opment* proved the inability of Hin-'
denburg's Dvina army to withstand the
pressure put upon them by Kuropat
1 kin's short-lived offensive. Unless the
German commander in chief has a far
greater number of men at hi* dispo
sal it ifl not believed that he will be
cap'ahle of striking any crushing blow
' at the (zar's defence* between the
'. Gulf of Riga and the eapital city.
The odds are all in favor of the
Ru*?ian*. Between the German armies
and their goal the (ftar's forces are
firmly intrenched and in huge num
1 bers ifl a region preemmently ntted
' for defensive operations. Ihe rai.
' road lme* interlacing the vast intenor
' of Russia are all at their disposai
I and troop* and supplie* could be
ru*hed in ?hort time to the aid of anv
| threatened portion of the northern
front. I
Will Smother Drive.
The very fact that the Raaaian
; armies are "in the ascendency alonjr the
whole 400-mile eas'ern front lead* ob
i servers to predict that the propo*ed
, drive on Petrograd will be smothered.
i At any time that danger threatened the
I eapital. they argue, the Russians could
halt all offensive operation* to the
', *outh. *trip thoir lines of veteran *ol
? dier* and officers for use in the north
? and *till have *ufficient forces to repel
; any Teuton attempts to advance. Thia
is espeeially true of the great Galieian
! and Volhynian fronts, it is declared.
For the?e rea*on* London believe*
I that the threatened new thrust against;
\ Petrograd is either to be an attempt to
' relieve tha pressure on the Teuton
' lines now being rolled baek on Kovel
i and Lemherg. or but a feint to ma*k
I some deeper project in the south
| some new offensive in Galicia, perhapv
i where Turkish troops by the thousands
| have recentlv augmented the Austro
German forces before Lemberg
Ru**ian Attack Goes On.
Meanwhile, urfdeterre.l by reports
for which there is as yet no official
; foundation, the Russian troops are
i continuing their powerful and mees
. ?*nt pounding of the German and
! Austrian lines behind which Kovel
! and Lemberg trembie with the fear
i of imminent attack. The most fero-;
I cious fighting of the day took place ;
' Lound and in the village of Rudka-I
lenllnued on pal' B, <oliimn 4
RI0T AT BARNS FOLLOWS;
NIGHT SERVICE MAINTAINED
SHONYS SAYS 94 PER CENT OF HIS
MEN ARE BACK OF LOYALTY PLEDGE
Men representing, Mr. Shonts believes. more
than 9Jf per eent af the eonduetors and motormen
on the (ireen Car Lines. on whieh a atrike wai called
last night, aaaured him jiexterdaji of their loydtff.
In a letter they aaid:
"We, the undersigned uniformed employes of the
New York Railways Company. desire to make these
faets clear:
"1. We have given no one authority to present any
demands on our behalf to the management of the
company.
"2. We believe the relations between the manage?
ment and the men of this company can be settled within
the family ranks and without outside interference.
"3. We shall be glad to join in perfecting a scheme
which will give specific representation to all employes in
tho maintenance of satisfactory relations between the
company and employes.
"4. We are earnestly desirous of remaining at our
work and co-operating to the end that there shall be no
interruption, ro far as we are concemed, of the street
railway service of New York City."
With the postponement of efforts to organize the
subway and elevated lines, it is believed no strike will
be called on these roads before Wednesday.
WILSON WAITS
ONR.R. STRIKE
May Make Personal
Plea if Mediation
Fails.
: rrom Th* TttPuna iwraau 1
Washington. Aug. 4. President Wil?
son was chiefly occupied to-day with
the developments in the threatened
railway ?trike. which would tie up
practically the whole transportation
system of the country. Beginning an
hour before hi* usual time, the Presi-i
dent had a aecond conference with j
Judge William L. Chembers, Commis
*ioner of the I'nited States Board of
Conciliation, and with him went over
the entire situation.
When the I abinet met at 11 o'eloek,
it is understood that the President laid
the entire matter before hi* advi?er?.
What eourse of action wa* decided
upon wa* not announced, but after the
meeting it wa* declared that the Pre?i
dent was anxious to do everything
within hi* power to prevent the ?tnke.
In case the Conciliation Board ia un
BfcU to make progre**, it wa* ?*id,
President Wilson will probabl, make
a personal appeal to both th* railway
managers and the brotherhoods.
After tBe Cabinet meeting it was ex- j
pected that Judge Chamber* would
again confer with the Pre?ident, but,;
although h* was not ealled on all day,
he kept within easy lummoni of the;
White House. He refused to make any
statement* on the conference*
Hanger on Hi* Way Here.
While Pre.ident Wilson wa* thus
seek.ng a way to prevent a break be?
tween the road. and men, George
\V W Hanger. appointed ye.terday as
a member of the Conciliation Board,
was on hia way to New York to confer
with railway offlcial*. H* went in re
bPonse to a request from Horace Baker.
chairman of the apecial committee of
the railroad*. and S. E. Heberling. ifl
ternation.l president of the Sw.tch
men'? Inion of North America. It i*
understood that both *ide* have agreed
I ontlnneal on pMf 3, rolomn *
The New Model
Rrmember iho.r old onr-lung. puffing. .norting
moterT-Twhlrh w. _J ? "-f"" ?? ??"? ?"" ???>
We had never seen anythin*r difterent.
You used to be equally well .atiafied -** the old
order of Automobile Pages. But that wa, before The
Sunday Tribune showed th. way with its new model
Now. obviously. it would be very odeJ to aticlc *****
when the new ,. j?* aa eaay to get. Three ^ "?*
to your newadealer get it They are: Sa*-e My
Tribune!" Have you said them?
_f iiThc ^un&as aTrUroitt J^
?UL Sews-EdltoriMls-Adverthemeati. ^J^J^,
_?HP-E-BB.. u,dM ? _? ao_B ?onaa _ c_c_au__
STRIKE IS LAID
TO WHITRIDGE
P. S. C. Opinion Says
He Ignored Agree
ment Made in 1913.
Cnion official* received the greatest <
encouragement yesterday in fact, the
greatest boom to their cause since
they came to New York from Oscar
Btraaa, chairman of the Public Ser- !
vice Commission. In a preliminary
"summing up with a recommendation"
of the session* of the commission'*
inve?tigation of the facts underlying ,
the strike on the Third Avenue sys- \
tem he declared that the strike in j
Yonkers and Westchester, spreading ,
to Manhattan and The Bronx. and the ]
situation that menaced the whole city j
were due to the attitude of Frcdenck ;
W. Whitridge. president of the Third :
Avenue system. who is now in Europe.
The opinion of the commission ups*t'
Vice-President Maher and Alfred A. i
Cook. the Third Avenue system'* coun-]
ael. Mr Cook entered a lengthy pro?
test against what he con?idered an
unJ'JBt aspersion upon the honor and
deeencv of Mr. Whitridge He argued
in vain. He maintained that the com?
pany had not had an opportunity to
present all the fact* in the case, but
Chairman Struu* answered that the
opinion wa* simply a preliminary one,
based or the evidence heard thus far.
A* a result of the Public Service
Commission'-' heanngs, though. the
strike on the Third Avenue system
may be arbitrated. The most hopeful
announcement since the threatening
lituation developed was the statement
of Mr. Cook that he had succeeded in
calling a meeting of the Third Avenue
board of direetor* for Monday morn?
ing to designate some one with power
to handle the Third Aver.ue situation;
in the absence of President Whitridge.
The board'* last action gave power to t
Mr. Whitridge to handle tho matter.:
General Manager Maher ha* taken
charge in the absence of Mr. Whit
ridajB.
Cook Ask* Instruction*.
"I would liKe to k.i'.w." laid Mr.
Cook. when hi* protest against the
commis?ion's opinion. was found to be
futile, "what tne commission'* instruc
tion* wocld be, ao that when the board
of direetor* meet* on Monday we may
handle the matter with promptness ;
and directne**."
"I can't g've you any* d'.rections,"
replied the chairman, "but thil wou.d
be my suggestion: That power be
vested in some one to act; that that
person or persons take the matter up,
with the men I have no right to sug
geit or a*k that it be taken up with:
any one but the employes of the com-'
pany."
So it wa* finally deeided that Mr
Cook would present the subject of
arbitratir.g the differences between the
eompany and the car men to the board
on Monday and try to hring about an
adjustment. Both sides will receive
eopies of the commission'.'- preliminary
report.
When the board of direetor* act* Mr ,
Cook and Loui* Fridiger. counsel for
the Amalgamate.i Aaaociatioa of Street
and Electrie Railway Employe*. will
rr.eet for a diieussion of what may ae
done to effect a settlement. Then both
partiea will report baek to the com
muiion at 2 o'eloek Monday afternoon.
Chairman Straus's opinion, con
curred in by the "our other member*
of the commission, follows:
"I'entlemen, I think f _>m the te?ti
mony that has been deveioped we have.
arrived at u point where tne eommi*
?ion i* juitiried to make a preliminary
?umming up with a recommendation.
"Without maktng anv formal finding
i oniinur.J oo p?i* l. columa I
Hedley'sRefusal to Meet Demands
Brings Unanimous Vote at
Meeting of Employes.
RICHMOND WORKERS QUIT;
QUEENS TIE-UP PLANNED
4,000 Strikebreakers and 10,000 Police Are
Ready?P. S. C. Lays Blame to
Whitridge's Attitude.
The slreetcar strike situation reached a crisis just before
midnight. These were the principal features of the develop
ments up to that hour:
About 800 conductors and motormen on the green cars,
operated by the New York Railways Company, voted unani
mously to strike. They left their meeting hall at Eighty
sixth Street and Third Avenue instructed to force their
friends from the cars.
Despite minor riots along the routes of the surface car
lines affected by the strike, service in general had not been
"i_isconti7iued at 2:30 o'clock this morning. Cars were run?
ning on regular schedule on Broadway and on Seventh,
Eighth and Fourth avenues. On the upper East Side. fol
lowing demonstrations at the car barns at I^exington Ave?
nue and Eighty-sixth Street, service was irregular.
The crowd ran to the car barns of the Madison Avenue
line and called to motormen and conductors to join the
strike.
Employes of the New York _ Qneens County Railway
Company met at midnight to take similar aetion. /jk
Men operating cars of the Richmond Light and Rail- V1J
road Company on Staten Island voted to quit at l oVlock
this morning.
Execution of these threats means a spread of the strike
to include all the surface car lines in the greater city except
the B. R. T. lines in Brooklyn.
Subway and elevated lines are not affected. The union
plans to call out employes of these lines next week.
A tie-up of the green car lines would involve nearl>
3,200 men. If it is made effective the entire surface lines
of Manhattan and The Bronx, except the blue cars, operated
by the Second Avenue company, will be crippled.
This will mean the cessation of service on Lexington
Avenue, Fourth and Madison Avenue, Sixth and Amster
dam Avenue, Broadway and Columbus Avenue, Broadway
and Amsterdam Avenues, Seventh Avenue and Brooklyn,
Eighth Avenue, Ninth Avenue, and the 113th Street, lUith
Street, Eighty-sixth Street, Thirty-fourth Street, Twenty
third Street, Fourteenth Street, Eighth Street and Canal
Street Crosstown lines; Bleecker Street, Madison Street and
Metropolitan Crosstown lines.
The fight for the green cars is in full swing. A packed
meeting of street railway men, about 60 per cent of them em?
ployes of the New York Railways Company, voted unanimously
to strike last night and then manhed on the green car barns at
Eighty-sixth Street and .Madison Avenue. Conductors an.i
motormen still operating their cars were hooted and jeered.
Bricks were hurled, and the car barns surrounded by men shout
ing to their fellows to quit work.
The few policemen on duty were powerless until reserves
arrived. Conductors on the Eighty-sixth Street crosstown lines
stopped taking passengers as soon as the strike vote was an
nounced. It was greeted with a wild shout inside and outside
the hall.
Soon after the vota William A.
Collins. organ.zer of the American
Federation of Labor, announced an
adjournment of the meeting until
1:30 o'eloek thts morning, when the
-nen expected to have more of the
rreen car men enrolled.
The men left the hall and ran
through Eighty-sixth Street toward
the Lexington Avenue banis. Many ?
inspectors and several superinten
dents stood across the street from
the hall. The strikers puffed out
their chests at them as they passed
and tauntingly shouted:
"Well, here we are. We're on
strike "
Wear (ard* In Hat*.
Many strikers had decorated their
hats with cardboard devices reading:
"Don't ride on scab cars?Walk!"
Green car operators encountered en
routa in the barns were ealled to
join. The men boarded several open
cars on Madison Avenue, urging
tttrWU to quit work, to run their cars
into tho barns and W3lk out.
< ommissioner Woods, Deputy ('om
missioner Lord and half a doren
strong-arm men from headquarters
reached the Eighty-aixth Street l
barns at 1 o'clock this morning and
took charge. Meanwhile the strike
mob had proceeded up Lexington
Avenue to the Ninlhy-ninth Street
barns. Tkery halted cars on the way,
pulled bell rope.s and, failing in those
attempta, placed ash cans on the
tracks. When the reserves of the
lf4th'Btreet station arrived, George
Keegan, one of Hedley's assistants,
had a striker arrested.
The meeting hall, the I.yeeum, at
F.ighty-sixth Street and Third Ave
.-.ue began to nll up early. About 400
red car men, strilcen of the Third
Avenue syitem, came first, but the
first half doren green car men ta ar
rive in uniform were greeted with a
tremendous shout and eheer It was
estimated that of the l.JOO or more
v.ho crowded the hall during; the
night about 60 per cent were green
car employes.
"I had the meeting rovered bjr ele
vated subway and street car fore
men and supermtendents," said
Frank Hedley. "The highest eati
mate made by any of them wai that
there were no more than 150 men m
our employ there ?
"Will the itrike be general F Bat
waa asked.
"I fcijess it will." Mr Hed>y n
plied, "but we will be prepared to
meet any emergency that may arise "
lt took the meet.ng only a brief tima
