THE WEATHER
FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow, continuing
warm; light south winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 83; lowest, 69.
Detailed weather, mall and marine report on page 8.
tin.
IT (shines fok all '
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 340.
FRENCH RETAKE
THIAUMONT AT
BAYONET POINT
Twice in a Day They. Win
Back Post Over Doilies
of Germans.
ALSO HOLD FLEURY
AFTER HARD FIGHTING
Teutons Still Battling
Regain Stronghold
nnd Trenches.
to
FIELD WORK CENTRE
OF FURIOUS BATTLE
Changes Hands Several
Times in Course of
the Day.
Paws, Aug, 4. Thlatimont la In the
handi of the French to-night, won nt
the point of the bayonet uml held
against the gray line, which still la
driven against It In unending surges.
Twice to-day the French took the
shell ploughed, lead sown Held work.
Thev wore fnrreil nut ttm rimi nm
k. ,,.,i. ,k . i , ' ' l,r,,,fnt successful and vigorous offensive
hut won back the ground In a heroic on three fronts of the theatre of war.
charge. It is the Germans' turn to ' "Our neighbor," the l'remler con
march again and again into the aput- Hlrou ITCr!iT."nd,r
tiring nan or tne mitrailleuses, over
the bodies which literally enctimlicr
the earth, and try to get back to th
ruins of the trenches and dugouts
they had laboriously lieen building
fur a month.
... ,
lloldlii Flenrr.
ul ... twin 11 tiiurvuJty, uui
could not hold it. They came back this
afternoon and this time they stayed.
The Hermans have kept n foothold In the '
little place : t,he rest Is lost tu them, j
The taking of Thlaumoiit Is a won.'
ilerful feat. In time of peace, the spot
prnbihly had no name. It was not'
even a village. It wax a little farm!
slung the road between two little villages
of Bras and Fltury.
At Its south. It was In the shadow of
a ronslderab'e till! Cote ile Frolde Tcrre
ind to the north It was edged by
woods. The nearest fort was Douau
mont. When Liege and Namuv taught
he world that forts of concrete are not
t" be relied upon, the farm became one
of those marvellous labyrinths of
trenches, of hidden gun emplacements,
tansies of barbed wire and catarombs of
underground shelters which have re
placed cement and steel forts. As such.
It was a prize for the army which held
It and a constant menace to the enemy.
So It has- changed hands six times,
three times before the 3d of July and
three times to-day. To take It a month
n the nermann sacrificed three dlvl- I
slons. .111,000 men.
mere is no reason i
in think the flghtinK was any lem deadly
pi-day. Thlaumout la likely to go down
Into history as sharing with the open
1 pes leading up to Fort Douaumont
the crewsome distinction of being the
bloodiest spot In the world.
Verdun In Last Pfcaar.
All France believes to-night that the I
battle of Verdun, which began February
13. has entered upon Its final phase,
The Herman attacks have lost their
elan. The "Busy Herthas" are as won- 1
ilerful as ever. The nrtlllrrt- ivhleh .
roars uninterruptedly day and night
from behind the (Jerman lines Is the .
Mine terrible artillery it was when the
first bombardment of Verdun began.
Hut when that murderous task known
In the dry language of life official re
ports as "the artillery preparation" is
completed, when trenches nre battered
nd trees shorn away, then the Her
mans, who used to come on with cour-
and steadiness, massed Into a solidly
Mvanclng target, do not now show their
old power.
Correspondents at the Verdun front
wlleve the battle was revive. I hv th
ti'rmans In an attempt to show that the
withdrawal of the Hrandenburgers, their
'rack troops, to strengthen their front In
I'ioardy had not wsnkenea ti.i.. v,.i,.
une. The bluff has failed, they say. The 1
Krinch were tulrk to note the changed I
fl'lrlt nf tlielr enemies. When the furv
rif ,1. . . . .
ihey methodically began to plan a coun-
nir .(cromii auacK nail spent itself i
"i unrnsive, wnicn pore Ita fruits to-
I.Tno PrUonera Taken
In three days nf battle the Frencl.
wve captured IJ.-iO prisoners In liand to
i'nd flghllng. One little group after an
J'tlier has thrown down Hh arms In ex
MUMIoii and despair. The lesson of
Thlaumnnt and Fleury Is that while
I ifrill'i nn1. Aa nl . .
stra n hu be.un to T l ih. r
f her JghtlM ri Te 'L 1hl I
. " ,- iii.iv inoi an;
neen weakened by bad news from
nome, ,y the admixture of old men, boys
...i', ,-unvn lescenrs,
Crltlr-s iiireu.i.. i,.... . .i, i.
the tuniinir mi ' t ,VL L. .11 I
IIMj tit Ihntii tlu I
ir.e last great fjcrman offenalve has been
oroken.
I nub throwers played a leading role
I" the preliminary steps of the French
'nr,!ve. For two weeks they had
'n cautiously working their way
ii'm".'1 Tlilaumont Work, around
Ji ll J".... Splitting at tile HriiB-Fleury
rji.ni, inn! party went to the east toward
Thlaumout Work, and the other went
"rthward toward Vacherauvllle and
ote rtu Polvre. The first detachment
'ok and held a position west of the
iiiirfiimont Work nnd the second reached
me wuiui near Vacherauvllle.
'n ''mtrol of these polntn. the French
'oirunandera delayed no longer, but Iw
nati three days ago tn attack from all
"lies at once. It, the three days they
''took practically all the ground the
''riiians had wrested from them in aev
'ra weeks.
1 hey took all the poaltlona for a depth
of about a mile from the alopea of Hou-
Contt4 Thlri Pif.
HAIG AND JELLICOE ASSERT
ALLIES' TRIUMPH IS SURE
Great Rally in London, Addressed by Asquith, Votes
for Continuance of War King George Tells
Allies Britain's Purpose Is Inflexible.
IiONDon-, Aug. t. "We look forward
with confidence to success and trium
phant peace," wan the conclualon of
an Inspiriting telegram from Ocn. Sir
Douglas lialg. commander of the llrltlsh
armies In France, read at a packed
meeting In Queen's Hall to-night to cele
hrnte tho second anniversary of the war.
The Karl of Derby, Under Secretary
for War, presided at the meeting, which
wait most enthusiastic and representa
tive of all etasses of society. Karl
Derby read a telegram from Admiral Sir
John Jettlroc, commander In chief of the
nriiiKh grand neet. which was similar
In tenor to that Kent hv (Ion. linn, in
a brief speech Karl Derby (,ald:
HV..I L-I....JI .
'u'" iiiiKiaiining our losses nnu tne
misery and anxiety caused liy the war.
the empire Is Just as determined as ever
10 see uerin.in militarism crushed. Al
though the end of the war may not be
In sight, never have we stood In so
favorable n position as to-night."
I.nnilon for t'nnt!Nnce.
l'remler Asquith received i great re
ception when he moved n resolution ex
pressing the Inflexible determination of
the people of London to continue the
war to a successful end. It was carried
by acclamation.
Referring to (lermany's costly mistake
and delusion In supposing that C.reat
Hritaln would never Join France and
llusslu In nrms the l'remler said that
never In the tangled and bungled web of
Herman diplomacy had there been an
error ko crude In conception nnd so dis
astrously fatal to Its authors.
I'roceedlng to a review of the two
car Premier Aniulth said the war has
urruint-ii new spirit into the llrltlsh
nation, while there was nothing more
remarkable during the past year than
the success with which the Kntente Al
lies had developed a common policy and
a united plan, which had resulted In the
In history has there been such demon
strative proof of the supreme Importance
of the command of the sea.
Nlcciia of Kaem K.xhnasllon.
'The enemy Is everywhere mi the ile-
, fenslve. In ) theaMe he.8 he nt- I
u'liiiuru io regain ine initiative and i
there are signs of material weakening
Iin, exhnustlon. That Is all the more
SHACKLETON FAILS TO
SAVE 22 COMPANIONS
;,.tni'll tn Kii I k I iwl Iwlntiilu
,u 11,1 ,ls ' ' r "" lWHIHlS
After Relief Ship Is But
tered by (Jules.
!ONins', Aug. 4. l.lcut. Sir Krnest
Shacklcton has again failed to rescue the
main body of his Antarctic expedition,
left on Klephant Island, says the Molly
Chronicle, and has returned to the Falk
land Islands.
Kir ICrnest returned on board the
steamer Kmma, says a Iteutir despatch
from Port Stanley. The ship was forced
back by heavy gales and Ice and It was
founrl Imnosslble lo set near Klenhnnt
Island through the pack Ice. The ship
was battered, the engines were Injured
and the Kmma was obliged to pioceed
under sail.
Sir Krntst, the correspondent adds,
recognizes that It is useless to attempt
to force a passage with a light ship and
he 1s waiting for the steamer Discovery
to come from England.
Sir Krnest Shackletou 1-.ns made two
attempts -o rescue the main body of his
expedition, comprising twenty-two men.
which was left on Klephant Island when
Shackleton and live of Ills men started
out ill search of aid last April. Sir
Krnest arrived In Port Stanley, Falkland
Islands, with five members of his party
on .May 3,
Tho Uruguayan Government offered
the steamer InntltutopeMM for relief
work and Sir Krnest left Montevideo on
June 8 for Klephant Island. The ex
plorer returned to port' Stanley on June
ZTi Me Immediately proceeded to or
ganize another relief expedition and
sailed from Punta Arenas, cnile, on
.July 1.1 on board tile steamer Kmma.
The Inst report of the expedition was re
ceived from Buenr Ayres on July : and 1
said that the Kmma had renclieil tne Ice
fields of the Antarctic regions.
Klephant Island Is one of the South
Shetland sroun and fur the greater part
of the year Is covered with snow. Ilow-
rvcr - ' Wi'" " aiiunuauce of
eca,s aml "eil fr'w1, w"r'1 ,,e'n
received from the marooned men since
c..kn1.lal.., Atlil-ne.l r,,mi IIia 1 ,it i, rcf In
rM,"l','r"" - " -. .
-Mi'''
INCOME TAX RAISE URGED.
Pro-
;
I
Levy HlKh ns 1.1 Per Cent
pnsril by Denmprnt.
Wahiiinoton, Aug. 4. Democratic ,
members of the Senate Finance Commit-
tee almost have completed their work with
revenue bill. A caucus Is planned
" !" ' " c0"1, " ,h" ,)IU' "
It is Known ine proposed nix on cop-1
per has been niodllled to appease the
Senators from Montana, Arizona, Nevada
nnd i olorado, and Hint the suilax has
bn Increased on the larger Incomes by
nuw claKslllcatloiiH that contemplate a
tax as high as 15 per cent, on Incomes
above 11,000,000, and 12 per cent, on In-1
comes above 1500,000.
Tnere are niso several new cinssiiica-
tiuns to net at the "war brides."
EMERSON WILL TEST OATH.
V. X, to Pljtht llalieaa Corpus Writ
nf Mnaa. flunrilainan.
IIohton, Aug. I, Announcement Hint
a writ of halieas coi litis would he Issued
lo-mnriow for the release of Alexander
M, Kmersnn of this city, who has been
detained at the mobilization camp In 1
uvumiinrhairi for refualmr to take t ha
Federal oath, wan made by Jud te Dodge
In the United States District Court to
day.
Tho Government, It Is understood, Is
preparing to appeal. The outcome will
be awaited with Interest as the llrat teat
before the courts of the provision! of
tit new national defence act.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, AUGUST 5,
Ing tenacity and tinrelaxlng will.
"The recrudescence of deliberate and
calculated barbarity on the part of Ger
many Indicates her sonso of desperation.
The record of her latest atrocities will
blacken nnd has even besmirched the
annals of the German army. Nor can
we forget the great Infamy directed
against ourselves In the Judicial murder
of Capt. Fryatt, which has stirred the
Indignation and outraged the conscience
of the whole world."
The l'remler was greeted with an out
burst of applause when he repeated the
statement he inado In the l!ouo of Com
mons that the Kntente Allies were con
sidering how to deal with German
atrocities.
He concluded by stating that all the
allied army staffs are agreed that the
prospects for an allied victory hae
never been so blight and that the dual
result of their triumph would be "a great
partnership of nations in the Joint pur
suit of a freer and fuller life for the
countless millions, who, by tho efforts
nnd Hacriflces of generation after genera
tion, have maintained progress and en
riched the Inheritance of humanity."
Andrew llonar Law, Minister of State
for the Colonics, characterized the war
as the most wicked the wurld has ever
seen nnd declared Germany had forever
lost tho advantages which the years of
preparation had given her.
Mr. Ilonar Law read messages from
On. Louis Hot ha, l'remler of South
Africa, and Lieut. -Gen. Smuts, com
mander of the .South Africa forces, urg
ing the continuance of the war with
determination.
Klngr (.rorste'a Message.
King George telegraphed to-day to the
heads of the Kntente allied States as I
follows ; I
"On this the second anniversary of the t
commencement of the great conflict In i
which my country and her gallant nlllcs
lire engaged I desire to convey to you I
my steadfast resolution to prosecute the i
war until our united efforts have at- I
tallied the objects for which we In com- '
mon have takrn up arm.
"I feel nssured that ou nre In accord
with me In the determination thai the '
sacrifices our valiant troops have so 1
nobly made shall not haxe been offered .'
In vain ulid that the liberties for which '
they are lighting shall bo fully guar- '
in teed and secured." 1
Klnc licorce also sent the following
messaze In ICIm- Albert ,,f Hrlciim, .
"1 desire to assure y u of my con-
nnencc mat tile united efforts of th
Allies will liberate llelglum from the
oppression of her aggressors and le
more to her the full enjoyment of her
national and economic Independence." ,
YOUNG LOSES FIGHT
FOR NORDIC A ESTATE
Jersey Court Denies Probate
to HMO Will Leaving For
tune to lltislinnil.
Freehold, .V. J Aug. 4. lieorge W.
Yountf, husband of Mine. Lillian Nor
dlca. has lost his fight to have probated
In thin State the opera singer's will In
which the bulk of her large properly was
left to him. Judge Itullf V. Lawrence
to-day filed his conclusions In the case,
denying probate lo Mine. .Vomica's 1J10
will and admitting to probite the 1914
will, In which her property Is left to
others.
Inasmuch as Suriogate Cohalau In
New Vork nceepted the t914 will for1
probate, It means that Mr. Young will j
not receive any of his wife's property
unless he successfully carried on lltlga-
tlon In other courts. I
The singer's estate Is valued at he-1
tween l.:ino,noo and $3,oon,non. The
first will leaves practically all of this
lo her husband : In the second will, which
was made on January 10, 1914, just be
fore she Jled at llalavia, Java, the bulk '
of the eatate goes to her three sister, i
Mrs,
.nnie naiuwin or White Plains, 1
Mrs
iniogene casruio of i.os Augelcii
and Mrs. lone Walker of Dorchester,
Mass,
It makes this reference lo Mr. Yourss:
1 am not rorgetrul of my husband,
fleorge W. Young, to whom I have ad-'
vanced over $41111,000 In cash, which 1 1
estimate ns the full or more than the1
full share to which he might ho entitled
111 my online." 1
SPENT MIIXION IN FIVE YEARS.
ClilliU's
Kslnle of Sjtl.'JIMI.noO
Sliratik tn Less Than fUOO.OOO. I
' Shrinkage In Ihc estate of living W.
Chllds. who cut a wide swath In Hroad-
way when lie Inherited his share of the '
fortune of his rather, William II. II.
'liHds, was disclosed yesterday. Start-1
.Ing with $I,'JOO,noo, the younger Chllds
' l.. .1 1 - u I . , a. I l.lu ...... .......
e., iimh.,i ,un iin uhoh inn wncn
I he died, live sears lattr, ho left a net I
i stale or only J192,s92. '
The apptaiwil was Mini yesterday by
.losepli W. Spencer, appraiser. The gross !
istate was IJaO.iriO. The bequests are.
far beyond the total of the estate.
A lawyer, Frederick II. Clarke, vvho
rAi..,...i ,.. .-ii.ii.i . .. ,
wi,n urn i. ii.i.-i, in oiiim, was in receive
fT-VOn and the residuary estate,
Cath
irlne II. Smith. Chllds's nurse, was downl
for $.',00ii. Lydla K. Itoblnson, vvhoi
g.i'i.ed notoriety w he,, she horsewhipped
,,,,l,d" .,rl," '' her. was
in receive a lire interest in ii.i.non, The
widow, who has married ngalii, was left
an annuity of JTi.ooo for life. Miss
llnhliison was adjudged liy the Suivo-
gale's Court to be "the friend who was
-ith me In Spain," to whom Chllds loft
an additional bequest.
The appraisal shows Ihat Clarke, who
was criticised by tho widow for lilu con-1
uuii regarding me win, nas renounced
his bequests, and has transferred his
lejcaey Jointly to the widow and her
daughter, Marjorle K. Chllds.
ROBINS OUT FOR HUGHES.
Democrats Hrleveit (Iter Loss of
Prnarrr salve Leader.
Crape, figuratively speaking, hung on
trie uoor or Democratic national head.
uUMrter yesterday, Vance C. McCnrmlck
and Ills lieutenants mourning Ihe dead
""I"' attaching Itaymond llolilns, the
Progressive leader, to President Wilson's
campaign.
Franklin D. Itoosevelt, Assistant Sec
retary of the Navy, was a caller, He
said 'he had come from Maine and the
IluchcM speech or acceptance had not
made a hit there.
SUFFRAGISTS SEEK
FUND OF $500,0001
Only Stnt'tor to Finance Cam
pnlgrn to Gain Votes for
Ifnglics.
WILL STUMP COPXTRY
Women Will Devote Principal
Lnliors 'Against Demo
crats in West.
To raise the blggcft campaign fund
of the year is the task to which tho
Woman's party lias set itself. Mrs..O. llt
I'. Uelmont, chairman of the commit
tee, goes to Newport to-day to begin
work of forming a group of 1,(100
wealthy women, upon whom she will
Impress the need of J r.00.000 as u
starter to organize women voters against
the Democratic party.
Miss Alice I'aul, national chitrman
of the Congressional Union for Woman
Suffrage, who was in New York yester
day to confer with Mrs. Uelmont, Mrs
Harriot Slanton HIatch and other lead-,
eis, would not admit that the Woman's!
party Is to hurl Its sliength against ,
the Democrats. That, she said, was one (
of the questions to be settled at the I
women's conference which begins at 1
Colorado Springs August 10. Hut Mis.
ui.i.1. in.. ti.i. ..i t....,.i
em suffragists arc to present their views . '' ' l, .f "M'IoMm- o, other . ang-ioiis
to the women voters at this conference.!'",1''11' ,hal 'Iff ,'?l'Kcd "1,l",',1 ,'"
and Judging from what they s.ild y,,.i",J'"la'" h the provlslotm of Hi-'
tcrday about Hughes and Wilson, there l lrt, " Hi- comm Isslon s regulations
l-i no .loubt th.it "Vol.. f,,r 1 . , ,
Is the slogan they will semi rR,ll: K , J t 'f 'minielpallty In the exer-,
through the Western States.
Miss Paul. Mrs llialch. Mrs Florence,
Riy.ird lllllei arid a dozen ntlicm lo.wc
for Colorado Springs Monday. Mis
i:isb' Hill. Miss .lam- l'lnciis and tin-
resi oi ine iweniy-iour organizers .n
.. ....... - .. .
the Woman's parly will meet with the
conference. Directly the Killcy is ile.
tided upon they will start out to organ-!
Ii' HIV UU1IK ril.llt'9.
on September I the epe.,kers. Mrs.
HIatch. Miss Todd. Mrs. Kheta Chllde
Dorr and many otheis. will Mart out
upon circuits which will not end till ' ' ' "
'election d.i . Mlsa Ada Flatm.iu will sl"l Munition oiliiiients. ( Vi liltrlilgo'rt door the U.llllo fur
'head 11 corp which will cover every, Two otll.ials of the New Jersey Cen-1 'I'0 """"" the Third Averuio Mstem
,'",'.r'1. n, "T. ,KcW" "V? 1 ,n" ,l;'H'"'"l ailed at the city Hall in 1 Umt said that the crisis on the Third
Placards lelliric the women what raiidl-1. lersev city wstenlay ami pr.t.-ste.l
date-, to ote for and which to defeit against the embargo on explosives. They ' "w',lllc lines was responsible for the
Miss Maud Younger N now 1 nnducting were told by the authorities tli.it the ' trouble on other transit lines. He
0 campaign school in Wa-lifngton. so i lly was deteirnlned not to permit iniinl- i,..,,.,i .,-.i,.,,, ....i.-i,i,. .. 1.1. 1
the organizers and spe.ikets may haie Hons of war to be transported Into it. 1 ' lMrc" 1 rldcnt W hltridge with be
down to a dot the record of etery can- J. W. Meredith, general superintend-' ing responsible for the conditions that
illdate. from the blgge.it to the smalteM. j em. who w..., ni-companied by C II, J tlireutrn to paralyze passenger tralllc
on suffrage. I Stein, division superintendent, and by
The leaders are not going nbmit tills Walter S. Topping, assistant chief In-1 the entire city,
campaign with Joyous hearts, for II hap-, nwtor of the bureau of explosives of The point made by Atr. Straus was
pen most of them are Democrats. Mrs. the Americnii Hallways Association. ' that President Wliltiidge had promised
Uelmont Is a Democrat, so are Mrs. 1 ald there would be serious congestion jyr.3 tn arbitrate dilticilltles between
match. Miss Todd. Mrs. Hllles wlm-e within the net few dajs unless Ills rail- ,lp iimi th railway 111 Von-
fatlier was In Cleveland's Cabinet Miss road were permitted at least to get u , , tn.i-lei-le.l 1b.1t l.Wi.
I.ucy Hums, the vice-chairman of the through all small arms munitions which 1 ' 1 f ' f 'm ,, 1 ,r ?,i
Congressional Cnlon. and mo,t of the ; transit lo tidewater to be shipped j : that lie full power from
other-. Hut they nr.. puttlnc suffrage abroad. He challenged the right of the 1 his board of directors to handle the
before party, and that, .Mrs. HIatch said '"''I authorities to take such a Maud as situation and then went iiwny In
esterday. Is' the spirit' she found among they have. The Delaware, Lackawanna , F.urnpe without conferring1 with the
women voters everywhere In her recent
trip through the est.
Miss Paul clings to the belief the pres
ent Congress will pass the Susan II. An
thony amendment, in which event the
rourse of the Woman's ji.uty will veer
.Mrs. ISIetc'i said President Wilson. In
the hist Interview he gave her. exploded
the theory States' rights Htiind In the
way of hi Indorsement of the Federal
amendment,
"Dismiss from jour minds the Idea
that my parly or I ine concerned about
States' rluhts," be told her. "It I" the
r.egro quest Ion, Mrs. HIatch, that Keeps
my party from doing as you wish."
MOTOR BANDITS GET $37,000. 1
'
i...... i. i i. ......... k m
Detroit Throim. see lite Men
Strnl Payroll mill l-'lcr. ,
Detroit. Aug. I. Five unmasked ban-
rilts this afternoon heH up an aiitonio
bile in which Jlio.noo payroll money was
being taken to the plant of the HUI
roughs Adding Machine Company, nnd
before the guards could offer resistance
snatched five bags of six in the car, s.ild
to contain J37.00H, nnd escaped.
The holdup occurred In view of hun
dreds of employees of auloiiioblle fac
tories and throngs on Woodward avenue,
Itudolph Cooper, a guard, was shot
thiopth the hip and struck on the head
He Is III a serious condition. Cooper
atteni'ittd In Intercept the speeding ban
dit automobile. The bandits were armed
with rifles and automatic plstolx
j-.vcr moiorcci.. ponceio hi in neirou
was ordered to engage In the pursuit of
the bandit car. which when last f-cen was
making for the open country north of ;
I'ettolt ,
line pay guarn Mini ne uioukth ii inn.
tlon picture scenario was being staged,
COAL SHORTAGE WARNING.
'
llniiaehnldrra Are illed in PIner '
Their Order Knrly. (
A warning lias been sent out by the
anthracite bureau of information from
Wllkesbarre, I'.i,. that there is likely to
be a serious shortage in the coal supply ,
for the finning winter. ConsiiuierH an ,
advised tn place their orders liefme the
fold weather comes,
While the total production of coal for
the first six months of lUlU is greater
than for the same period last )uir, It Is
pointed out that the piepared. or domes,
tic sizes, have not Increased, as have
the steam sizes, and that therefore theie
If nut as much coal available for house
hold purposes as the total production
flgiues might Indicate. llesldeK, the pio. 1
dining capacity of the mines has been
affected by a shortage of labor, and
them Is no reason to believe that the sit
uation will Impiove in the fait.
The storage plants which at the be
ginning of last season were well stocked
are now practically depleted,
RICH YOUNG GOLFER MISSING.
DUnppenrs on Links After Coin
plnlnliiK f FerlliiK III,
liTTBiiunu, Aug. 4, Overcome by heat
while playing In a golf tournament at
the Stanton Heights (lolf Chili at noon
yislerday Severn Ker. 19 years old, son
nf Severn P. Ker, president of Hie Sharon
Steel Hoop Company, disappeared, and
niter a twenty-four hours, search the po
lice admit they have found no clue to Ida
viierenbouts and are planning a coun-i
tryvvide search for him.
Ker came here during the early part of
the week and registered n't tho lintel 1
Siheiiley. Ile played the first day In the
tournament. When he reached the golf
course yesterday ho complained of not
feeling well and returned to the club-1
house. He has not been seen since.
1916. Copyright, 1916, by the Sun Printing and Publishing At.ioclallon.
u. S. BLAMELESS IN
BLACK TOM BLAST
Commerce Hoard Says Explo
sion llcsponsibillty Hosts
on New Jersey.
CITY .MAY STOP SHIPPING
Munitions That Caused Blow
up Were Packed as Federal
Statutes Hcquire.
Washington, Aug. 4. The Interstate
Commerce Commission hau reported to
President Wilson that Its regulations re
g.udlng the packing of explotlves were
compiled with and that icsponslblllty for
the Hlacl; Tom explosion rests on the
Stale or inunlelnat imtlinrttir. Seere.
lary Tiimult has foiwnrdrd the commls-J
slim a reprrt to Frank Hague. Commls--loner
of Safety In Jersey Cit. The ic
port saya:
"Our Investigation thus far discloses
no evidence that the law or icgulatlctiis
of the commission governing the packing
am! safii transportation of explosives
weie violated. Fin thcrmore, from the
nosi information obtainable. tli explo
. Silin t:it r-.itix,l liv tlt-n nt, tit .InVu
union wan known to have, been burning I
for approximately two houra before the J
"r" c,'l,0,l", wcurrc.l.
Therefore, mi the f.icts before us. It
""l'1'1 "i'P'ar that under In- present law
regulation the ro.nnils-io.i has i not
l'"''r "' Prolilblt the railroads from
u-liig their public dci.ierv tracks foi tlit
i ..V rH 50,v"n"'K
the right to pi eci ll.e limit-) within which
such commodities may tie handled and
limits within which they shall not be
........., .ju, !.- ii, i n in i win .iii-i
i.fin.i ...i .... ... i.i.. . .... .. n
,11.,.,. ,,,, ., ,,, ,, , ..,
pi ' ........ ... ,ti(.,'.. ,..
1IT..H1I1 IO I'AinCSS all
i opinion."
I CKSTRAL MKX PROTEST
'
,. , ... ..,...
.mi ,11-i.hi 11 1 1 1 ii.iii, 11 .ii i,-niiirii
last night. Is going to test that right
.lames W. McCarthy, second assistant
Prosecutor of Hudson county and De-
"Ml" ,,.1111,11, . ' lltlllinn ll.tt,' I, - -
purled as a result of their Investigation
of the lll.uk Tom disaster that they
found barge No. I'l. owned by the John-
lectlve William J. charlock have re-,
k.ii, 1 I.l.,,-.i m ,111,1 T.in-litn 1 ...,,.. ....
intact and loading at pier is of the
Jersey Central. This Is the barge that
was believed lo have been the cause of
the second explosion and to have been
iliwl rt, ...1
The hearing of the (barges of man
slaughter against the presidents and
agentji of companies whose property was
Involved ill the explosion was laid over
csterday for two weeks. 1
' ' ... .t .
i:xiloiie Pamler Washed Ashore. ,
, ,, ....... 1
l.os.1 Hmni L. 1.. Aug. 4. Five
1 ., , , . , ,, I
I up 011 the beach here to-day. They are '
", "mhosh.- ,.uunr were wasiien
thought lo have come from' Hlack Tom.
GOULD SUES HEINZE HEIRESS
Seeks to lleeover Pnrl nf 1,114, -."ssi
.liiiluiuc nt.
IMuIn Could began two suits In the
Supreme Cotiit yesterday against Mrs.
l.lda Fleitmniiii, sister of the late F.
August Hi Ileinze, to recover part of the
Judgment for $l,:'(l I. fits he obtained
against Helli7e shot tiy before the lat
ler's death In October, 1914.
Mrs. Fleltmiinn Is administratrix nf
tin. llelnre .slnle. uml Mr ftonlil In hn.
lwlf ()f himself and all others similarly
nuu,,!, aKs for the appointment of a
r,,,.,.iver
specifically. Mr. Could attack as
fraudulent and colliisory the transfer In
..n-j ,v Helrize to Mrs. lieilmann of the
follow lug life Insurance policies; New
York Life. JIOO.OOO; Kiiultable. IKO.OOO;
Manhattan, $.10,0011; Northwestern Mu
tual. t.Vnmi.
Ills se.ond cnniplainl Is ngnliist the
transfer to the Miners' Smelting Com.
pany of llelnze'H Interest in what Is
Known as the I'nlted Copper Company
loan and the American Smcltlm- and
llellning Company rights, i'lili Interest
Is now in Mrs. Fleltniann's possession,
Could chariies.
Notice to THE SUN
Readers.
Because of what amounts
practically to a famine in news
print paper, we are compelled to
make THE SUN, morning Mid
Sunday, and THE EVENING
SUN strictly non-returnable
from newsdealers.
That is, beginning next Mon
day, August 7th, we shall not
take back unsold copies from
newsdealers. A similar rule al
ready obtains with the Times,
the World, the American and the
Tribune.
We are telling you about this
so that you may place a regular
standing order with your news
dealer for your paper, By this
means you will make sure of
getting it and you will thus pro
tect your newsdealer from a pos
sible loss in having on hia hands
unsold copies. r
: STRIFE TIER IIP M V CI1D17AP.I7 T TMUQ.
Public Service Commission
Assails Third Avenue
Knihvny Head.
BROKE AGREEMENT
WITH MEX, IS CHARGE
Official Who Wont to
Europe on Kve of Tieup
Opposed Arbitration.
"NEGLIGENT IN DI TV
TO STOCKHOLDERS"
Directors Will Meet Mon
day to Vest Authority in
Some One Else.
President Frederick W. Wliltrldgc of
the Third Avenue Itallwny Company
uml Its Hiibsldlnry lines wan iissnlled
ychterihiy by the Public Service Com
mission for going awiiy to lluropo
uml l.-ivln- ,.i....- e i.i -..n
..or. ... f,,- 1,1 in,-, ,,iiiii)
I .HAM fltll.i,l ,. I. . .. I ,
........ i,.iilii n, iu iiiinuii: iruu
lenis growing out of the demands of
,. .
1 ,,,e ,-',rn"," for ni,""c !"'.
Chairman 0cnr S. Straus, who read
tho onlnioi, of n.n ,.,nn,i..i,,, 1....1 ...
carmen,
I
,
' ' "",r "
, I lie 01HIUOI1, VI11C!I l.lllll
1 prij.,, , t),t. olliclals of the
Hnivvi,y Company 1111,
,... , , ,
The opinion, which came n a sur-
Tlilrd Avt-
iiml gave tin-
IM'll l' lllf ell ine ii-m,- n, I iiiiii v. .
1 .. ..,n... un.inH ..n....
"I think from the testimony that has
"v""l'p' we nr ..rrie,i ,, .
"""" " rP l"r coiiiiiiisskh, is juMii e 0
I '" " preliminary "'",.n,I"K "' "lth
1 I et 11111111, liii.ti lull. 1,111111111 iii.iimiin
any formal finding at this time we are
' of opinion the evidence already dis
closes a situation which the commission
feels should be brought lo the attention
of both nartli's.
.,pp(ari( ,, Vr(.sUfnt wmtridge
of the Third Avenue system In 1913 en-
tere.i Into an agreeiuent with the men
. Vonker.- and Westchester lines
between them weie
1 lilt l ail uuiereoce
to arbitrated;
arm tuai even tne
I question whether or not a difference at
issue was arbitrable should also be sub
j mltted to arbitration.
Men Were Wllllna tn Arliltrnle.
"There appears to be no dispute that
the men on the Youkers and Westchester
lines not only were rmdy to arbitrate
the differences between them but they
asked for the opportunity to arbitrate
them.
"Mr. Maher testllles that In his opin
ion Mr. Wliltrldgc overlooked or forgot
this agreement to arbitrate, so that on
the 11th day of July the situation
was that there was In existence an
agi cement to arbitrate all differences
between the parties, and the resolution
adopted by the directors on June i'rl last
placed exclusively In Mr. Willi ridge's
hands the handling of the matter with
the men.
"It Is already testified by Mr. Maher,
Sr., that this authority having been
vested in Mr. Whltrldse and he having
gone to Kuiope, having left the city on
the lath of July, lie. Mr. Maher, felt tli.it
he authority to deal with the
situation
"It was this omission or failure, In our
opinion, to deal with the situation In
accordance with the agreement with the
men made In 191.1 Hint precipitated, If
It did not cause, the strike on the
Yonkers and Westchester divisions,
"In the confeieiire between Mr. Whit
ridge and lite men Mr. Wliltrldgc ,on
tended that the matter of wages or scale
of wages should be treated as one scale
for the entire Third Avenue system, II
is evident that the etToits were already
under way to organize tho men on the
Third Avenue systi m.
"These efforts, It would appear, were
accelerated by the strike on the Yonkers
and Westchester lines, releasing the men
to meet with and organize their broth,
ers on the remainder of the Third Ave
nun system.
Assail Whllrldae'a Altitude,
"There can be no question that Hie
strike on the Yonkers and Westchester
lines and the events which follow ed In
the train of this strike. Including the
strike on tho other branches of the Tlilid
Avenue Itallrnad and the threatened dif
ficulties with the other lines of other
companies throughout the city, came
about as the immediate and logical If.
suit of the altitude of Frederick W.
Whltrldse, president of the Tliltd Ave
nue Itallrnad, and the actions he took in
tlie matter prove conclusively t li.it lie
either Intentionally violated the agree.
I nit ul he had made with Ihe men lo atlil-
tiale, and which he was In honor hound
! to keep, or that he was so negligent In
Ills duties to his stockholdeis, Ids em
i ployees and the public ns In forget cii-
tlrely this Important agreement,
I "We have already developed Ihe faci
that there is no real dilllcuitv that
stands In the way nf the parties getting
together. On both sides there is a will-
Con f Man! on Second Page,
ONE CENT
In
Jersey
WHITRIDGE BLAMED FOR LABOR WAR
pRKDERirK W. WHITRIDGE,
president of Third Avenue
Rnilwny, accused tiy Public Ser
vice Commission of precipitating
New York car strike.
RUSH FOR LICENSES
TO RUN 300 JITNEYS
Aiitoiiinliilc Owners Plan to
Heap Harvest in X. y. if
Cur Strike Spreads.
Th likelihood 1l1.1t this will became a
Jltneylzed town 111 Hi., event of the car
strike is emphasized by tho iu.i for the
past two il.ijs upon the otlice of the
Commlsifloni'r of License", Fifty-seventh
street near Tenth 11 venue, where hack
ing nnd c.il licenses are issued.
More than .inn bcem-es have been
grunted, when is about six limes as
many as usual at this lime of jear.
Most of tin- applicants are mvneis of
mi. ill or old iiutoini.blles arul Intend to
operate Jitney buses up and down the
111:1111 streets if there N .1 car Mrlkc to
make t.iuli trade ptnfltable.
Jitney btws an- illegal 111 a city of
the first class under .1 law nasi.i-1 in
May,
191."., taking out of the hauls of
the state Commissioner of Licenses the
licensing or automobiles which for IS
iciuji or less ,i licenser plv mi regular
routes. Power to ir-s.ti. mi, h encs Is
Vested with the ilii.ud of lNtimate. hut
inasmuch as It would be a violation of
the trolley car cotiiii.in.es' franchises for
the board to Wue I. vuses for Jitney to
operate on stunts devoted lo tiolley
Cars, no such licenses inivc I n Issued
ex cent to the b-t liu companies.
Inspectors of the Division of Licensed
Vehicles will tin, I themselves toin be
tween their syini.uhli nnd their duty,
which will ,e to arrest Jitney operatois.
Their course of conduct will depend
largely upon t'ie action the police court
Magistrates take when the llrst few
Jitney operators me arialKiied
Large eniplo.vers are oiganlzlnc trans
portation s.vst.lis of tlielr own to serve
as inal,, shifts in ca-e of a complete
P nalyzatlon nf tho Unction systems.
The l.aw.vers Title and Trust Com.
piny eus.igeil enough automobiles to
Holve Its problem. So in my linns have
followed Its example that the available
supply of iiiiloiiinliiles has In en reserved
ami late comers cm arrange for no such
accoinniod itions Tlie National city
Mini;, for example, has had lo icsort tn
the expedient of nskliu Its men to stall
for woik an hour culler Him usual, at
least until ainoiuolillfs can lie found.
Stern's stoic will ue its ion in tor
cars on a scliulule which lias been
win lied out, the enii .es' iilentitlcatloii
cards to serve as passes, liimbel's will
provide touring f.irs. Altinan's ins
made no ilellnile in l aiigeineni as yet,
but will be lenlnit with those wiio 'aie
laic. The Adams Kxpres.s Company will
use lis delivery lniiks on tcjulur routes
and schedules morning ami night. So
will the Null ii. il lllsctilt Company, the
milk conii,inlfs ami elialu stoics.
Post olllce cleiks ex t Insli iictlons
(mm Washington In case of emergency,
with h piohahtv will Include the r 1 1 1 1 r i-
up nf teinpoiaiy sleeping quarters in
tlie vni Ions buildings The telephone
lomp'iny is using n fomblnntlon of aulo.
mobile senile with its own in;u bines,
and sleipliu iiiaiters nt the viiiIouk ex
changes, Some nf (lie large banks will
pioviile hotel iimi teis mi smli of their
employees as cm tit no transportation
BOATS TO RELIEVE TRAFFIC.
niHccis of tin. Ii.in S'.i anib.i.it Coin
p.mj aiinoinifcil .ustcid.iv tint If the
elevated ninl suhuu lim s were tied up
lo.ilay by n slilko tlie lion Steamboats
would be operated during the day be
tween lite ll.ittci.v and West :!:iii strict
iit fieiiuent intervals, stalling at 7 A, M.
Thousands of noons are expected
thus lo travel to and fioin their bonus
as long ns' the strike continues,
JITNEY DRIVERS STRIKE.
YoNKfns, Aug, I. Twenty or ninto
big motor buses have been doing u
tluiving trade since the car strike began,
carrying linkers commuters from the
end cf the subway, Hroadway and IM'.'d
Mieet, to Hetty Sipi.nv at a dime a ride.
mviicis of small cms Jolniil tin m, and
look much nf the tiailn awn, clilviiig up
to tlie sidewalk with their machines,
binding up, and dulling olT Inward
Yonkers ! fine the b'g cms, holding
fifteen to thirty paHsengcis, could get
II load. The police, lo eml the grievance,
established a line Ian night, bin pis.
sengeis piefciied lii lake Ihe small cars
lather than wait for the big ones to get
a load.
So to-night, us the insli hour began,
Hie dlivi'is of Hie big cars, nil members
of Hie Sightseeing Automobile Assocla
Hon of New Ynik, ipill, and left the
field tn the small cars, This fnrfeil
hundreds In walk Hie two miles In cjelty
Si I ii a re.
AS
. i - -a
flreater New York.
I Klieittiefn
City and Ken ark.
J HVll CKMfl.
Action by 2,000 New Vork
Railways 3Icn Is 3Iarkcd
by Disorder.
CRIPPLE ALL SERVICE
EXCEPT SECOND AVE.
Workers on Last 1.1 Miles
of Trackage May Go
Out To-day.
STATEN ISLAND MEN
ALSO VOTE TO QUIT
Commissioner Woods Re
fuses to Put Uniformed
Police on Cars.
All the surface lines on Manhattan
Island, c.Ncrptliig the Second Avenue
Itiillwny ililue cni'H), are practically
tied tip by strikes this morning, nnd
Hint line i.s likely tn be paralyzed be
fore night.
Morn than .'.000 men gathered In the
Lyceum, at Kighty-slMli sticct and
Third avenue, last night, where- they
voted a strike on alt tin green cars nf
the New York Hallways Cnnip.my. run
ning iiver 171 miles nf tnifk. Ily this
w-der the strlko lenders. President Will
lain I). .Million nf tin. Iiiteriiiiiloiial or
ganization nf I'iirmcn iili'l his lieu
tenant. William It. Fitzgerald, have
ttlpplicl all tho surface car systems In
.Manhattan and The Hroiix e.Nfrptlng
tile thirteen miles nf track of the Sec
ond Avenue Hallway.
The carmen on Stiilen Island or
ganized ii union lust night nnd voted
In go nut on strike whenever Presi
dent Malum ninl I irgunlzer Fitzgerald
decided tlio light moment had arrived,
Kmployccs nf the New York unci
Queens County Itnilrnad, operating
limst of tin- surface cars in northern
ijueenx. ruei in Mnrrlsse's Hull, Astn
il.i, early this morning to vntc on a
strike. At L'tlS o'clock the reuniting
nf the ballot had not been finished, but
it was thought the vote would be tn
gn nut.
Action on thf subway, elevated and
It. It. T. lines is not expected until
next week.
More than ISO ircruits from the
green cars wen- escorted tn the
Lyceum tn tile second meeting; at 2
o'clock this morning. Thoy heard tho
nailing of tlie item mils upon the New
Mirk Hallways Company and tin com
pany's reply. They concurred n the
v ntc to .strike.
Two hundred employees of the New
Yoik and ljueens County Hallway Com
pany, after a meeting in Long' Island
City which lasted for two hours and a
half, voted unanimously t, strike this
morning. The result of the vote was
announced nt .:in o'clock. There are
5Ha employ ecs in all.
Immediately follow. ng the strike vote
by the .Manhattan carmen scouts scat
tered over the hdiiiid. warning the con.
diictors and Hindu nx n ,m l(. green cars,
persuading them to unit, attacking tliem.
pulling them off tlielr ears nnd stopping
tin hie Hy 1 o'clock this moinlng Ihe
service was badly crippled.
( rnvvit Attack I nrmeii.
Violence was reported nlong tlie
routes In Madison, Lexington, Central
I'.uk West, Hroadway, Sixth, Seventh,
Klghth and Ninth avenues While
gl.iilps of pickets were assigned to varl
oii part" of the system n crowd rushing
from the hall mobbed carmen on the HIkIi-ty-slxth
street crnsstuwu line, hurtled to
Lexington avenue, then to Madison ne
line, where they engaged 111 lights mid
rioting, stopping the service and coin
piillng the niotonueii mid fondiu tors to
Join tlieiii.
Pollie Commissioner W oils had ben
asked lo assign uniformed patrolmen tn
the cars in the event of u strike. He
ileclllicil to do that, and almost
I in-
iniiliately after the strike
been
ntdciid car windows were smashed uml
"it'll who were willing to remain loval
to the company said they were afraid
to run their cars, .ivnnlingiy shortly
after midnight the green c.us weie ruii
limn tne turns, wh.le pickets and strikers
jMood a shoit distance 'may cheering,
i "Tlie police have not given us lh
Ijiioper protection." said lienerut Mm.
nger lledley. who, with President Simula
and otln r niriiinls, was at tlie car barns
nl Seventh avenue and Fiftieth streel.
"How do they expect to give service in
tlie face of the gie.itest strike this city
lias even seen""
i Police i 'oiiimlsslouer Woods, who cs.
I tabllshed temporary lieadipiaiters In a
I garage in Kighty-alxth street near the
Lvi'cnni. got in touch with the railway
olliclals and also .Mayor Mltcliel, lie re
ceived If pints fiom bin lieutenants
thrnuuiioui tile Island, and al 2 n'elocl,
this morning lie nsseited Mr llcille's
leports of violence had not been verified
by bis men,
Mil) or In t'ontrnt err.
liesldenl Shouts was gtcally aliiiinril
by the manner In which the pickets were
threatening the loyal ciimeii. Ills ns
snciales asset led tli, it bombs bad been
put on the far tracks, that levolvers Intel
been nourished by the strikers mid Hint
car windows Intel hem smashed by bileks.
.Mr. Shouts called the Mayor out of bed
at 1 SO A. M. nnd tried to prevail upon
him to put uniformed policemen on the
ca is.
A healed foiltovcis,v was waged be
tween tlie railway olliclals and the rltj
olliclals over the iiicstlon of police pro
tectlou for the cars, Finally at I ,SS
A M.. President Shouts siifcenlril In
getting Jhe pi- tube of police tolectlou
from Commissioner Wood, lie then Is
sued this statement ;
"In accordance with our anticipations
rt
