1- 7
i
mmmlm^mm^mm
VOL. 32. No 32
REPUBLICAN PLATFORM
It Calls For Preparedness and
Protection of American Rights.
Chicago, June 10.Following la the plat
form adopted by the Republican national
convention:
In 1861 the Republican party stood for
the Union. As it stood for the union of
states It now stands for a united people,
true to American ideals, loyal to Ameri
can traditions, knowing no allegiance ex
cept to the constitution, to the govern
ment and to the flag of the United States.
We believe in American policies at home
and abroad.
Protection of American Rights.
We declare that we believe in and will
enforce the protection of every American
citizen In all the rights secured to him by
the constitution, treaties and the law of
nations, at home and abroad, by land and
sea. These rights, which, in violation of
the specific promise of their party, made
at Baltimore in 1912, the Democratic pres
ident and the Democratic congress have
failed to defend, we will unflinchingly
maintain.
We desire peace, the peace of Justice
and right, and believe in maintaining a
straight and honest neutrality between
the belligerents in the great war in Eu
rope. We must perform all our duties and
insist upon all our rights as neutrals, with
out fear and without favor. We believe
that peace and neutrality as well as the
dignity and influence of the United States
cannot be preserved by shifty expedients,
by phrasemaking, by performances in lan
guage or by attitudes ever changing in
an effort to secure groups of voters.
The present administration has destroy
ed our influence abroad and humiliated us
In our own eyes. The Republican party
believes that a firm, consistent and cour
ageous foreign policy, always maintained
by Republican presidents In accordance
with American traditions is the best, as
it is the only true way to preserve our
peace and restore us to our rightful place
among the nations. We believe in the pa
cific settlement of international disputes
and favor the establishment of a world
court for that purpose.
Mexico.
__1^_
FOR PRESIDENT
Charles Evans Hughes
OF NEW YORK
We deeply sympathize with the 15,000,000
people of Mexico who, for three years,
have seen their country devastated, their
homes destroyed, their fellow citizens
murdered and their women outraged by
armed bands of desperadoes led by self
seeking, conscienceless agitators.
We express our horror and indignation
at the outrages which have been and are
being perpetrated by these bandits upon
American men and women who were or
are in Mexico by invitation of the laws
and of the government of that country
and whose rights to security of person
and property are guaranteed by solemn
treaty obligations. We denounce" the in
defensible methods of interference em-
p'v*d hv this, administration in the in
ternal affairs of Mexico and refer with
shame to its failure to discharge the duty
of this country as next friend to Mexico,
Us duty to other powers who have relied
upon us as such friend and its duty to our
citizens In Mexico In permitting the con
tinuance of such conditions, first, by fail
ure to act promptly and firmly, and, sec
ond, by lending its influence to the con
tinuation of such conditions through rec
ognition of one of the factions responsible
for these outrages.
We pledge our aid In restoring order and
maintaining peace in Mexico. We prom
ise to our citizens on and near our border
and to those in Mexico, wherever they
may be found, adequate and absolute pro
tection In their lives, liberty and property
Monroe Doctrine.
We reaffirm our approval of the Mon
roe doctrine and declare Its maintenance
to be a policy of this country essential
to Its present and future peace and safety
and to the achievement of its manifest
destiny.
Latin America.
We favor the continuation of Republican
policies, which will result in drawing more
and more closely the commercial, finan- v*uUn
clal and social relations between this coun- mission, wit completeU gather
try and the countries of Latin America. *"H
Philippines.
We renew our allegiance to the Philip
pine policy inaugurated by McKinley. ap
proved by congress and consistently car
ried out by Roosevelt and Taft. Even In
this short time it has enormously Improv
ed the material and social conditions oi
the islands, given the Philippine people a
constantly increasing participation in their
government and, if persisted in, will bring
still greater benefits in the future.
We condemn the Democratic administra
tion for its attempt to abandon the Phil
ippines which was prevented only by the
vigorous opposition of Republican mem
bers of congress, aided by a few patriotic
Democrats
Treaty With Russia.
We reiterate our unqualified approval oi
the action taken in December. 1911. by
the president and congress to secure with
Russia, as with other countries, a treaty
that will recognize the absolute right ot
expatriation and prevent all discrimina
tion of whatever jcind between American
citizens, whether native born or alien,
and regardless of race, religion or pre
vious political allegiance. We renew the
pledge to observe this principle and to
maintain the right of asylum, which is
neither to be surrendered nor restricted,
and we unite in the cherished hope that
the war which is now desolating the world
may speedily end with a complete and
lasting restoration of brotherhood among
the nations of the earth and the assur
ance of full equal rights, civil and reli
gious, to all men in every land
Protection of the Country.
In order to maintain our peace, and
make certain the security of our people
within our own borders, the country must
have not only adequate, but thorough and
complete national defense, ready for any
emergency. We must have a sufficient
and effective regular army and a provi
sion for ample reserves, already drilled
and disciplined, who can be called at once
to the colors when danger comes
We must have a navy so strong and so
well proportioned and equipped, so thor
oughly ready and prepared that no enemy
can gain eommand of the sea and effect a
landing in force on either our western or
our eastern coasts. To secure these re
sults we must have a coherent and con
tinuous policy of national defense, which
even in these perilous days the Democrat
ic party has utterly failed to develop, but
which we promise to give to the country.
Tariff.
The Republican party stands now, as
always, in the fullest sense for the policy
of tariff protection to American industries
and American labor and does not regard
an anti-dumping provision as an adequate
substitute. Such protection should be rea
sonable in amount, but sufficient to pro
tect adequately American industry and
American labor and be so adjusted as to
prevent undue exactions by monopolies or
trusts. It should, moreover, give special
attention to securing the industrial inde
pendence of the United States, as in the
case of dyestuffs.
Through wise tariff and industrial legis
lation our industries can be so organized
that they will become not only a commer
cial bulwark, but a powerful aid to na
tional defense.
The Underwood tariff act is a complete
raimre In every respect. Under its admin
istration Imports have enormously in
creased in spite of the fact that the inter
course with foreign countries has been
largely cut off by reason of the war, while
the revenues, of which we stand in such
dire need, have been greatly reduced. Un
der the normal conditions which prevailed
prior to the war, it was clearly demon
strated that this act deprived the Amer
ican producer and the American wage
earner of that protection which entitled
them to meet their foreign competitors,
and, but for the adventitious conditions
created by the war, would long since have
paralyzed all forms of American indus
try and deprived American labor of its
just reward.
It has not in the least reduced the cost
of living, which has constantly advanced
from the date of its enactment. The wel
fare of our people demands its repeal and
the substitution of a measure which, in
peace as well as in war, will produce am
ple revenue and give reasonable protec
tion to all forms of American production
in mine, forest, field and factory.
We favo the creatio of a tarif co
Republican Standard Bearers
w. a
nmnu
TOR VICE PRESIDENT
congress in all matters relating to the
tariff.
Business.
The Republican party has long believed
in the rigid supervision .and strict re'gula
tion of transportation and great cor
porations of the country. It has put its
creed into its deeds, and all really effec
tive laws regulating the railroads and the
great industrial corporations are the work
of Republican congresses and presidents
For this policy of regulation and super
vision the Democrats, in a stumbling and
piecemeal way, are undertaking to involve
the government in business which should
be left within the sphere of private en
terprise and indirect competition with its
own citizens, a policy which is sure to re
sult in waste, great expense to the tax
payer and in an inferior product.
The Republican party firmly believes
that all who violate the laws in regula
tion of business should be individually
punished. But prosecution is very differ
ent from persecution, and business suc
cess, no matter how honestly attained, is
apparently regarded by the Democratic
party as in itself a crime. Such doctrines
and beliefs choke enterprise and stifle
prosperity. The Republican party believes
in encouraging American business as it
believes in and will seek to advance all
American interests.
Rural Credits.
We favor an effective system of rural
credits as opposed to the ineffective law
proposed by the present Democratic ad
ministration.
Rural Free Delivery.
We favor the extension of the rural free
delivery system and condemn the Demo
cratic administration for curtailing and
crippling it
Merchant Marine.
In view of the policies adopted by all
the maritime nations to encourage their
shipping interests, and in order to enable
us to compete with them for the ocean
carrying trade, we favor the payment to
ships engaged in the foreign trade of lib
eral compensation for services actually
rendered in carrying the mails and such
further legislation as will build up an ade
quate American merchant marine and
give us ships which may be requisitioned
by the government in time of national
emergency.
We are utterly opposed to the govern
ment ownership of vessels as proposed by
the Democratic party because government
owned ships, while effectively preventing
the development of the American mer
chant marine by private capital, will be
entirely unable to provide for the vast
volume of American freights and will
leave us more helpless than ever in the
hard grip of foreign syndicates.
Transportation.
Interstate and intrastate transportation
has become so interwoven that the at
tempt to apply two and often several sets
of laws to its regulation has produced
conflicts of authority, embarrassment in
I operation and inconvenience and expense
I to. the public.
The entire transportation system of the
country has become-essentially national
We, therefore, favor such action by legis
I latidn or, if necessary, through an amend
ment to the constitution of the United
States as will result in placing it under
exclusive federal cratrol.
Economy and a National Budget.
The increasing cost of the national gov
ernment and the need for the greatest
economy of its resources. In nrdar to maa*
tne growing demands ot Ute people for
government service, call for the severest
condemnation of the wasteful appropria
tions of this Democratic administration,
of its shameless raids on the treasury and
of its opposition to and rejection of Presi
dent Taft's oft repeated proposals and
earnest efforts to secure economy and ef
ficiency through the establishment of a
simple, businesslike budget system, to
which we pledge our support
Charles W. Fairbanks
OF INDIANA
Conservation.
We believe in a careful husbandry of
all the natural resources of the nationa
husbandry which means development
without waste, use without abuse.
,f Civil Service Reform.
The civil service law has always been
sustained by the Republican party, and
we renew our repeated declaration that
It shall ba thnraurhlv and hrnuatl* -~_
amsA j(s!jwgfc& m}'
Defective Page
"'"J-"-^^^' J,
torcea ana extended wherever practicable.
The Democratic party has created since
March 4, 1913, 30,000 offices outside of the
civil service law at an annual cost of $44,-
000.000 to the taxpayers ofj^jhe country.
Territorial Jlstters.
Reaffirming the attitaw long maintained
by the Republican party, we hold that offi
cials appointed to administer the govern
ment of any territory should be bona fide
residents of the territory^in which their
duties are to be performed.
Labor Laws.
We pledge the Republican party to the
faithful enforcement of all federal laws
passed for the protection of labor. We
favor vocational education, the enactment
and rigid enforcement of a federal child
labor law, the enactment of a generous
and comprehensive workmen's compensa
tion law, within the commerce power of
congress, and an accident compensation
law covering all government employees.
We favor the collection and collation un
der the direction of the department of la
bor of complete data relating to Industrial
hazards for the information of congress,
to the end that such legislation may he
adopted as may be calculated to secure
the safety, conservation and protection of
labor from the dangers incident to indus
try and transportation.
8uffrage.
The Republican party, reaffirming Its
faith of government of the people, by the
people, for the people, as a measure of
justice to one-half the adult people of
this country, favors the extension of the
suffrage to women, but recognizes the
right of each state to settle this question
for itself.
Such are our principles, such are our
purposes and policies. We close as we
began. The times are dangerous and the
future is fraught with perIL We ap
peal to all Americans, whether natural
ised or native born, to prove to the world
that we are Americans in thought and In
deed, with one loyalty, one hope, one as
piration. We call- on all Americans to be
true to the spirit of America, to the great
traditions of their common country and.
above all things, to keep the faith.
An Apologist.
(From the Washington Bee.)
The Bee, at the time Major Moton
was named by a committee of apolo
gists, said then that he was a "Hand
Picked Leader."
The condition of the colored race
in this country is due to these "hand
picked leaders." Now, in the first
place, Major Moton represents a class
of white men *and not the Colored
Americans.
He is not only a "hand-picked
leader" but an apologist who fails to
resent an insult.' Would any Ameri
can white man of any nationality at
tempt to make excuses for an insult
to his wife by a common carrier.
Has this not been the policy of all
hand picked leaders? This hand
picked representative apologizes for
the insult offered his wife while en
who had insulted his good wife. The
nnssoQQo* m9n
route to her home. Will Major Mo- by .._e
ton, the newly installed principal of patronage of Villa
Tuskegee, enter a suit for damages? fons as an assassi .^v
No, he would offer an apology to those whom apparently the administration
Bee has always been an admirer of x,,s a inA,* *v
i
Tur,^,
possessed manlv traits, tha would
commend him to the thoughtful con
sideration of the American black |cjj
A 4.1,!,+ *tT x. &*
Majo Moton and thought that he
i traits ,*t
race,, but, Thc BeeC
9 TWklr\uricff --1
the Associated Press Correspondent
at Montgomery, anent that sleeping ^ZL*
car episode. We
correctly quoted.
na i an
ATTACKS POLICY
OF DEMOCRATS
Charles E. Hughes Formally
Accepts Nomination.
DISCUSSES MEXICAN CRISIS
Republican Candidate for President
Roundly Scores Present Adminis
tration for Its Course Toward Villa,
Huerta and Carranza.
New York, Aug. 1.-In his address
in Carnegie hall accepting the Repub
lican nomination for president,
Charles Evans Hughes said:
"Senator Harding, members of the
notification committee and fellow
citizens: This occasion is more
than a mere ceremony of no
tification. We are not here to
indulge in formal expressions.
We com to state in a plain and di
rect manner our faith, our purpose
and our pledge. This representative
gathering is a happy augury. It
means the strength of reunion. It
means that the party of Lincoln is re
stored, alert, effective. It means the
unity of a common perception of para
mount national deeds. It means that
we are neither deceived or benumbed
by abnormal conditions.
"We know that we are at a critical
period, perhaps more critical than
any period since the Civil war. We
need a dominant sense of nationSl
unity, the exercise of our best con
structive powers, the vigor and re
sourcefulness of a quickened America.
We desire that the Republican party
as a great liberal party shall be the
agency. of national achievement, the
organ of the effective expression of
dominant Americanism.
Explains Dominant Americanism.
"What do I mean by that? I mean
America conscious of power, awake
to obligation, erect in self respect,
prepared for every emergency, devot
ed to the ideals of peace, instinct with
the spirit of human brotherhood, safe
guarding both individual opportunity
out the sacrifice of essential national
authority, appreciating the necessity
of stability, expert knowledge and
thorough organization as the indis
pensable conditions of security and
progress a country loved by its citi
zens with a patriotic fervor permit
ting no division in their allegiance
and no rivals in their affectionI
mean America first and America effi
cient. It is in this spirit that I re
spond to your summons."
In discussing foreign relations and
appointments Mr. Hughes declared
that the executive had not command
ed the respect of the world by his
conduct of the state department.
Competent diplomats, notably Ambas
sador Herrick of France, have been
retired for no other reason than to
meet partisan demands.
Has Not Helped Mexico.
"The dealings of the administra-
tion," Mr. Hughes declared, "consti
tute a confused chapter of blunders.
We have not helped Mexico. She lies
prostrate, impoverished, famine strick
en, overwhelmed with the woes and
outrages of internecine strife, the
helpless victim of a condition of an
archy which the course of the admin
istration only served to promote.
"For ourselves, we have witnessed
the murder of our citizens and de
struction of their property. We have
made enemies, not friends. Instead
of commanding respect and deserving
good will by sincerity, firmness and
consistency, we provoked misappre
hension and deep resentment. In the
light of the conduct of the adminis
tration no one could understand its
profession in decrying interference
we interfered most exasperatingly.
We have not even kept out of actual
conflict and the soil of Mexico is
stained with the blood of our soldiers.
We have resorted to physical inva
sion, only to retire without gaining
the professed object. It is a record
which cannot be examined without a
profound sense of humiliation."
Interference With Huerta.
Reviewing the interference with
Huerta, Mr. Hughes characterized it
as "a vacillating and ineffective inter
vention," and as "the height of folly."
"So far as the character of Huerta
is concerned, the hollowness of the
pretension on this score is revealed
th_ administration's subsequent
whose qualifica
tions assassin are indisputabl
was ready to recognize had he achiev
ni
mBMrno.
trust he was in
"^^f^^^Mi&UMMA^LiSu-Mi
a
mM.iA
must confess
it
_^e
0
uui iuDC uiuoi uuiuctw ma- w
he is a hand-piqked leader and an
No Very High Opinion.:
(From the Nashville GlobeO
'We entertain no very high opinion pretext
of President Moton's explanation to
,_J^. seemeAd to be hope
AfteMrdescribinB
thatt
notsalutt%
the^seizure of Vera
'We are now informed that we did
go Vera Sruz to force Huerta
to the flag we areA told that
we went there to show Mexico that
we were in earnest in our demands
that Huerta must go. That is, we
seized Vera Cruz to depose Huerta.
The question of the salute was a mere
A1H4^ 41% flo or TVA AH +*1A 41*
"Destroying the government of Hu
teft Mexic
W i, IT revolution. I shallt not attemp
tv.e r-vaeea
e*ll n% 0 ~I!X ?1
narrate the sickening story of bar-
barities committed, of the carnival of
murder and lust. We were then told
that Mexico was entitled to spill as
much blood as she pleased to settle
her affairs. The administration vacil
lated with respect to the embargo on
the export of arms and munitions to
Mexico. There was an utter absence
of consistent policy.
Recognition of Carranza.
"For a time we bestowed friendship
on Villa. Ultimately we recognized
Carranza, not on the ground that he
had a constitutional government, but
that it was a de facto government.
The complete failure to secure pro
tection to American citizens is shown
conclusively in the note of the sec
retary of state of June 20, 1916.
"The Santo Yzabel massacre, the
raid at Columbus, the bloodshed at
Carrizal are fresh in your minds.
After the Columbus raid we started
a punitive expedition. We sent a
thin line of troops hundreds of miles
into Mexico, between two lines of rail
way, neither of which we were allow
ed to use and which we did not feel
at liberty to seize. We were refused
permission to enter the towns. Though
thus restricted the enterprisers still
regarded by the Mexicans as a men
ace. Our troops faced hostile forces
and it is not remarkable that our men
fell at Carrizal. What other result
could be expected?.
"We were virtually ordered to with
draw and without accomplishing our
purpose we have been withdrawing
and we are now endeavoring to safe
guard our own territory. The entire
national guard has been ordered out
and many thousands of our citizens
have been taken from their peaceful
employment and hurried to the Mexi
can borders. The administration was
to seize and punish Villa for his out
rage on our soil. It has not punished
any one we went in only to retire and
future movements are apparently to
be determined by a joint commission."
Touches on European War.
Discussing the European war and
the maintenance of American rights,
Mr. Hughes declared that "national
security demands that there shall be
no faltering with American rights."
Continuing, he said:
"We countenance no covert policies,
no intrigues, no secret schemes. We
are unreservedly, devotedly, whole
heartedly for the United States. That
is the rallying point for all Ameri
cans. That is my position. I stand
for the unflinching maintenance of
all American Tights on land and sea.
"We have had a clear and definite
mission as a great neutral nation. It
-i^ _-i ____., i "Snts as neutrals, to protect the
fulfilled what then
en
lives of our citizens, their property
and trade from wrongful acts. At
least we were secured. We have had
brave words in a series of notes, but
despite our protests the lives of Amer
icans have been destroyed. What
does it avail to use some of the
strongest words known to diplomacy
if ambassadors can receive the im
pression that the words are not to
be taken seriously.
Words Alone- Do Not Count.
"It is not words, but the strength
and resolution behind the words that
count. Had this government by the
use of both informal and formal diplo
matic opportunities left no doubt that
when we said "strict accountability,"
we meant precisely what we said and
that we should unhesitatingly vindi
cate that position. I am confident there
would have been no destruction of
American lives by the sinking of the
Lusitania. Moreover, a firm American
policy would have been strongly sup
ported by our people and the oppor
tunities of the development of bitter
feeling would -have been vastly re
duced.
"It is a great mistake to say that
resoluteness in protecting American
rights would have led to war. Rather,
in that course lay the best assurance
of peace. Weakness and indecision
in the maintenance of known rights
are always sources of grave danger.
They forfeit respect and invite seri
ous wrongs, which in turn create an
uncontrollable popular resentment.
That is not the path of national se
curity.
Weakness Invites War.
"Not only have we a host of re
sources short "of war by which to en
force our just demands, but we shall
never promote our peace by being
stronger in words than in deeds. We
should not have found it difficult to
maintain peace, but we should have
maintained peace with honor. During
this critical period the only danger of
war has lain in the weak course of the
administration.
"The nation had no ulterior pur
poses," he said, and "we denounce all
plote and conspiracies in the interest
of any foreign nation. Utterly in
tolerable is the use of our soil for
alien intrigues."
Referring to preparedness, Mr.
Hughes said:
"We are a peace loving people, but
we live in a world of arms. We have
no thought of aggression and we de
sire to pursue our democratic ideals
without the wastes of strife. So de
voted are we to these ideals, so intent
upon bur moral development," that I
do not believe that there is the
slightest danger of militarism in this
country. Adequate preparedness is
not militarism. It is the essential as
surance of security it is a necessary
safeguard of peace.
Nation Is Unprepared.
"It is apparent that we are shock
ingly unprepared.
Ther# is no room
irrer is no room
for controversy on this point since
the object lesson on the Mexican
,-t.ofo border. All our available regular
troops
-^i" -j --ji* fJiP'" *,'J~'r''."-"^SC
S&40 HEB TtAfcV
there or in Mexico and as these have
been deemed insufficient the entire
national guard has been ordered out
that is, we are summoning practical
tj all our movable military forces in
order to prevent bandit incursions. In
view of these warnings of the past
three years it is inexcusable that we
should find ourselves in this plight.
"We demand adequate national de
fense, adequate protection on both
our Western and Eastern coasts. We
demand thoroughness and efficiency
in both arms of the service. It seems
to be plain that our regular army is
too small. I believe, further, that
there should be not only reasonable
increase in the regular army, but that
the first citizen reserve subject to
call should be enlisted as a federal
army and trained under federal au
thority.
"In our proposals there is, I repeat,
no militarism. There is simply in
sistence upon common sense in pro
viding reasonable measures of secur
ity and avoiding the perils of neglect
We must have the strength of self re
specta strength which contains no
threat, but assures our defense, safe
guards our rights and conserves our
peace."
New Conditions Will Arise.
Mr. Hughes declares the country
was deeply interested in the organiza
tion of peace. New conditions which
it must meet would follow end of the
war.
"Again, we must build up our mer
chant marine. We need the encour
agement and protection of movement
for our shipping industry but it can
not afford to have the government as
a competitor."
On the subject of labor Mr. Hughes
said that he did not desire production
or trade or efficiency in either, for its
own sake, but for the betterment of
the lives of human beings. He said
that there are few disputes which can
not be easily adjusted if there be an
impartial examination of the facts. He
said he stood for adequate federal
workman's compensation laws.
On the subject of agriculture and
conservation, Mr. Hughes said he fa
vored an effective system of rural
credits.
On the Philippines question he de
clared that we should administer gov
ernment there with a full recognition
of our international duty without par
tisanship.
Favors Wowan Suffrage.
Mr. Hughes came out unqualifiedly
for votes for women.
Under the heads of administrative
efficiency, civil service laws and the
budget, Mr. Hughes said that under
the.^resent administration.-'Uhe prkte*. ^o^*^^
ciples of our- civil service laws have
been shamelessly violated," and that
there has been reckless extravagance.
Mr. Hughes concluded as follows:
"We live in a fateful hour. In a
true sense the contest for the preser
vation of the nation is never ended.
We must still be imbued with the
spirit of heroic sacrifice which gave
us our country and brought us safe
ly through the days of the Civil war.
We renew our pledge to the ancient
ideals of individual liberty, of oppor
tunity denied to none because of race
or creed. We have a vision of Amer
ica prepared and secure strong and
just, equal to her tasks an exemplar
of the capacity and efficiency of a
free people. I endorse the platform
adopted by the convention and ac
cept its nomination."
Waco and Americanism.
(From the Chicago Evening Post.)
If Americanism is more than a
mere shibboleth of patriotism if, as
we believe, it has a real meaning that
gives the word worth, then Ameri
canism must be shocked and humili
ated by the horrible story of the
Negro lynching at Waco, Texas.
It is no defense to say that the
wretched victim in this instance had
confessed to a hideous crime and
been convicted by a court of justice.
Rather is it an aggravation, for here
there was no risk that justice would
not claim the full penalty. The burn
ing of the man for the delectation of
a mob of Waco citizens under such
circumstances is a bloodthirsty,
brutal horror too black for words to
stigmatize. It was the gratifying
of a lust for vengeance as guilty as
the lust that provoked it.
The thing is the more cruel in its
wrong to Americanism at this time
because the people of Texas have
been crying aloud for the repression
of mob rule on their own border.
They demand intervention to compel
order in Mexico, yet give themselves
to lawless violence in their own
state.
In the forefront of the Villa chase
the colored soldiers of the Tenth Cav
alry and Twenty-fourth Infantry have
held conspicuous place they have
done excellent service. How greatly
the ideal of Americanism must be ex
alted in their minds by the knowl
edge that American law cannot pro
tect from the mob a member of their
own race.
As perilous to Americanism as the
"moral treason of the politico-racial
hyphen" is the treason of those who
defy law and humanity and brand
their country with the mark of bar
barism in the eyes of the world. If
the guilty cowards in Waco cannot
be apprehended, every citizen in the
town should be disfranchised. It
would be small injustice to those who
were not participators, for in a mat
ter of this kind, where the com
munitys
tolerates such
bea
a mesu
outrageshouldansti the perpetrators,
rotect
nwho
'^^M^^Ji^MsiM^^
responsibility.epractic
The votesa ofr ment an
archy are not desirable votes. Dis
franchisement is the least that may
be done to protect Americanism.
'mmmm
