r
'-"
j &tj?jv--5'.?'r " " rtv- -v
--?Tyg?T- ii uiii.iijui mmm9mmmmmmmmmmmammKmimm!?''j---1 -, --y- - m&sn j-.--.--
HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE GHIPS FAIX WHERE THEY MAY
ol. XXI.
CHICAGO, AUGUST 5,-1916
No. 46
Ex-Governor; William Sulzer of New York Has Become the
Candidate of the American Party for President of the
United States. He Was Nominated in a Most Enthusi
astic Convention at Minneapolis, Minn. He Declares
That He Will Pull More Than Two Million of Votes.
Special Interview with the Governor
THE PLATFORM OP THE AMERICAN PARTY PRODUCED IN PULL ALSO
MR. SULZER'S SHORT ELOQUENT ORATION DELIVERED IN THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES FEBRUARY 27TH, 1909 ON "THE
NEGRO SOLDIERS." A
HE WILL WAGE A BRILLIANT ORATORICAL CAMPAIGN AND HIS
PRESENCE WILL BE FELT IN THE MEMORABLE PRESIDENTIAL
CONTEST THIS YEAR IN ALL PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.
The remainder of this year will be a
great time for statesmen and politi
cians to forge to the front and the
latest Richmond in the field for presi
dent of the United States is former
Governor William Sulzer of New York,
who is one of the best known men in
this country, who has been nominated
as the standard bearer of the American
Party. In a late interview Mr. Sulzer
lias this to say in relation to his striv
ing to become president of this great
Republic.
"How does it feel to be a Presi
dential candidate?" repeated Mr. Sul
zer to an inquiry.
"Well," he smiled, "I have been
a candidate so many times the feeling
is familiar and I take it philosophical
ly Jesuis pbilosohe toujours, is an
old maxim of mine.
"Why didn't the Prohis, nominate
me.'" he again repeated. "Because I
do not belong to the Prohibition Party,
and they say Tom Taggart's machine
in the lloosier State was afraid if I got
the nomination, the vote I was sure to
jret in Indiana, would defeat overwhelm
ingly the Democratic ticket in that
State.
"You know I am, and always have
been, a true Democrat of the Jcfler
Miii School, and my candidacy meant
defeat to the Democrats. Mr. Hanley
has always been a Republican, and his
candidacy will hurt the Republicans
and hence the fine Italian work of the
Taggart machine. To those who watch
ed the moves in the St. Paul conven
tion, it was a glorious triumph of the
Democratic machine of Indiana. How
cr, the best laid plans of mice and
nun 'gang aft ngley' and we shall see
re long what will be as Horace Grecly
lis. d to say, 'mighty interesting conse
iiicnces. '
"What will the American Party do?"
t'"' former Governor was asked.
"It will make a-great campaign for
i principles, and when the votes aro
muted, it will not be the last in the
e. We arc out to win." We will
i irt organizing and campaigning at
'no. We are now organized in seven
- ites, and in a month we will be or--
uii.ed in a dozen or two more and
'en watch our fight for the people and
r our free institutions. It will be a
'.inorable campaign from start to fin-
- i -with plenty of pep and ginger.
Somebody is going to get left. The
i usih will not be on us.
"The American Party made no nom-
' at ton for Vice President. It offered
i e honor to Col. John M. Parker, of
I riiisiana. If he finally declines, tho
loininittee is authorized to fill the va-
aiicy. I hope the Colonel will accept
but have no fear, we will get a good
i -in.
I am a progressive through and
tl rough, and I favor a union of the
merican Party and tho Progressive
l'arty. If wo unite wo can win. A
general conference looking to that end
will soon be held.
"Tho Prohi party is dead. Tho
American Party is very much alive.
Tho Progressive Party can be resusci
tated. Up to the timo of our convention
the campaign of 1916 had infantile.
paralysis. But, from now on there will.
he life and Tim, and vigor, and victory
in tho air.
"Do not forget Inhere is a fighting
candidate a new Richmond now in the
field, and with the best and most honest
platform ever adopted, he moves for
ward to challenge all comers for presi
dential honors."
The platform of the American Party
follows.
Platform of the American Party.
The American Party, in National
Convention Assembled, in Minneapolis,
July 22, 1916, declares for God, Home
and Country; the Perpetuity of tho
Free Institutions of America; and de
mands these essential reforms to fur
ther the Brotherhood of Man,
1. Peace and comity with all nations
entangling alliances with none and
tho establishment of an International
Court of Justice having jurisdiction of
ever' International Question, with am
ple powers to enforce its decrees, and
insure the peace of the World.
2. The prohibition of the manufac
ture, and the sale, and the importation,
and the transportation of alcoholic
liquors for beverage purposes with an
administration committed to its consum
mation. 3. Equal suffrage to women by the
adoption of the Susan B. Anthony
Amendment to the Federal Constitu
tion; equality of all before the law;
river and harbor improvements; good
roads; the reclamation of desert lands;
an American Merchant Marine; a mere
scientific system of taxation; an honest
dollar; the safeguarding of American
citizens at home and abroad; and an
honest, and cfiieicnt, and an economical
administration of public affairs free
from graft with equal rights to all
and special privileges to none.
4. Human rights before property
rights; the man above the dollar; the
protection of those who toil; tho pro
motion of social justice; the betterment
of the home; harmony between capital
and labor by a more equitable distribu
tion of the fruits of labor; an eight
hour work day; a Civil Service based
entirely on the merit system; the con
servation of our national resources; tho
initiative, the referendum, and the re
call; the government ownership, and
operation, of public utilities; simplicity
and expediency in civil and criminal
law procedure to secure the square deal;
a uniform marriage and divorce law;
tho extermination of private monopoly;
the prevention of the mortmain of idlo
wealth; the abolition of child labor in
shops and factories; court review of
departmental decisions; and a cheaper
and more efficient pitrcels post.
5. A single Presidential term; pref
erential direct primaries for the nomin
ation of President, Vice-President, and
Senators and Representatives; in Con
gress together with their election di
rectly by the voters; and tho assem
bling of Congress on the first Monday
in January succeeding tho election of
the members thereof.
6. The perpetuity of our free institu
tions; civil and religious liberty; free
dom of worship; complete separation
of Church and State; no public funds
for sectarian purposes; free speech, free
press; free public schools; and a land
of free men and free women free from
(Tear; -free from superstition; and free
from the fetters of the dead and buried '
past politically, medically, economical
ly, and 'industrially.
7. On this platform, and for these
principles, the American Party presents
to the electors of the United States as
its candidate for President, Wm. Sulzer,
of New York, and as its candidate for
Vice-President, John M. Parker, of
Louisiana; and declares that their rec
ords, in the vineyard of the people, tes
tify in tones more eloquent than words
their loyalty to the public; their fidelity
to these principles; their devotion to
Peace, Progress, Prosperity, Patriotism,
and Prohibition; their fitness for the
office; and to secure their election the
American Party cordially invites the
cooperation of the patriotic citizens of
our country regardless of past political
affiliations.
A positive evidence that William
Sulzc- has for many years been friendly
disposed towards the Colored race, we
take much pleasure in reproducing his
short and eloquent oration delivered in
the House of Representatives, Feb. 27th,
1909, dn favor of doing justice Jo the
"Negro soldiers" for be it remem
bered that for twenty years Mr. Sulzer
was one of the. foremost members of
Congress from the 10th Congressional
District of New York City, and if he
fails to land in the White House as the
president' of the United States, later on
there are thousands of people in all
parts of this country who would be
very much delighted to see him resume
his long and honorable career in the
halls of Congress from his same old
congressional district.
"THE NEGRO SOLDIERS."
On Feb. 27th, 1909, the bill to do
justice to the Negro soldiers was up
for discussion in tho House of Repre
sentatives and on calling the roll Wil
liam Sulzer like a brave and true blue
liberty loving free American answered
present at the same time standing on
his feet and with all eyes rivited upon
him he very eloquently delivered the
following short oration on "The Negro
Soldiers."
Mr. Sulzer said:
"Mr. Speaker: Wo have no braver
soldiers in the Republic than the Negro
troops. I am in favor of doing justice
to those Negro soldiers. They are en
titled to it. They never have had a
square deal in or out of Court.
"The innocent should not be pun
ished for the guilty. I voted in favor
of this bill in the Committee on Mili
tary Affairs, and I shall vote to pass
it through the House. It is honest and
it is just.
"It will do justice to the innocent
men. If we fail to do justice in this
case, we will be false to ourselves, and
false to every principle that wc revere.
If we refuse to do justice to the Colored
soldiers who are innocent, we will vio
late every tenet of our boasted love
of fair play. In my opinion, if this bill
becomes a law, no guilty man will be
able to re-enlist in tho army, and no
innocent roan should be prevented from
doing so.
"I have no race prejudice. I want
to say that I am now, always have
been, and I trust always shall be, in
favor of justice to all men here and
everywhere throughout the world with
out regard to race or to creed. 'For
justice all seasons summer, and all
places a temple.' "
No doubt on the seventh of this com
ing November many millions of voters
in this country will not feel like voting
for either President Woodrow Wilson
or the Hon. Charles E. Hughes; then
in that case they should cast their votes
for William Sulzer for president of the
United States for his warm liberty
loving heart beats in sympathy with
straggling humanity.
&-:
HON. WILLIAM SULZER.
The fearless or courageous Champion of the common People and the gallant
standard bearer of the American Party for President of the United States.
BEACH RACE RIOTERS FINED.
Two Negroes and White Man Each As
sessed $5 for Jackson Park Battle.
Participants in the race riot at the
Jackson Park beach Saturday night
were each fined $5 and costs -by Judge
Rafferty in the Hyde Park court the
first of this week.
Those fined were Thomas Jackson,
5507 Lake Park avenue, and William
Willshire of 5618 Harper avenue, Ne
groes, and John Merrick of 5616 Ken
wood avenue.
Five Negroes, with five Negro women
went to the beach and a fight started
between them and a crowd of White
bathers. In court tho Negroes charged
that the Whites started the fight. This
was denied.
There aro many bulldozing Whites
who entertain the idea that they own
tho whole earth, and many of them
do not own anything and there aro
many loud mouthed Negroes who are
always walking around with chips on
their backs looking for troublo and it
is this class of Whites and Blacks who
are the leaders and the instigators of
race riots and it was well indeed that
Judge Rafferty permitted the strong
arm of the law to fall upon both the
Colored and tho White alike for there
is plenty of room at tho public beaches
of this city for all to bathe without
starting any race riots. Editor.
Mrs. Pegg, who for a. long time re
sided at 5402 S. Dearborn street, who
has for the past three years resided in
New York City; spent a few hours in
this city the first of the week; on her
way home, from the West. While in
the city she -pas the guest of the Mor
rison Hotel.
SMALL IS "TOP NOTCH" FARMER.
Candidate for State Treasurer Efficient
Manager.
Len. Small of Kankakee, 111., a can
didato for nomination for state treas
urer, is one of the leading farmers of
Eastern Illinois. Last year in the
"top-notch" farmers contest Mr. Small
was first chosen a "top-notch" farmer
in his own township, and in the county
contest was placed as one of the five
"top-notch" farmers of Kankakee
county.
This is an especially strong record,
because Kankakee county was tho first
county in the state to have an agri
cultural adviser, tho result being that
tho farms in that county aro in excel
lently kept condition. To be one of the
five best farmers in such a county speaks
much for efficiency. This efficiency has
characterized Mr. Small, both in pri
vate and public work, and will con
tinue to characterize his services if
elected state treasurer.
HON. LEWIS G. STEVENSON
SHOULD BE NOMINATED FOR
SECRETARY OF STATE AT THE
STATE WIDE PRIMARIES WED
NESDAY SEPTEMBER 13.
No mistake was made by the present
chief executive of this state, when ho
selected the Hon. Lewis G. Stevenson,
to succeed the lato Harry Woods, as
Secretary of State.
For Mr. Stevenson has made a high
class or tip-top, painstaking public of
ficial and plays no favors in Ihe dis
charge of his official duties. Therefore
.he should bo nominated, for Secretary
of. 8tae at the State wide primaries
Wednesday, September 13th.
ALDERMAN ALBERT J. FISHER
WILL MAKE THE RACE FOR
THE NOMINATION FOR CON
GRESS IN THE THTRD CON
GRESSIONAL DISTRICT.
Alderman Albert J. Fisher, who has
honorably and intelligently represented
the people of tho 32nd Ward in tho
city council, for a good many years,
and who is very popular with his con
stituents regardless of their politics
and at all times approachable, has be
come ono of the Republican candidates
for the nomination for Congressman in
the third congressional district and
Alderman Fisher will conduct a manly
and dignified campaign to forgo ahead
of his rivals at the primaries Wednes
day, September 13th.
LITERACY LAW IS DEFEATED.
Oklahoma Votes Down Constitutional
Amendment Proposed as "Grand
father" Substitute.
Oklahoma City, Okla. Interest in tho
primaries in that stato last Tuesday
centered in the proposed literacy teat
amendment to tho stato constitution,
which official returns indicate has been
defeated by a majority that might
L reach 15,000. Tho test would have
disfranchised any person unable to read
or write any section of the state con
stitution and was admittedly intended
as a substitute for the famous "grand
father" law, declared unconstitutional
by tho United States Supreme Court .
because it in effect deprived Negroes
of the right' to vote. '
&.7.kh.. t ?,j
fo.yfr .sris -ii -"lv-Lxy-i
j. vi VJ '.;;
"HiTiT Tin i TTriTnTri i ihifgiiT!
St"Si!i
