American Fork Citizen i
R .,,1 - 1W -faWWaWI - 1 IIIBII . HWMiLHiiiMHiiniim IIHIHWIIIW I III I '' ' '' I' TTII "' ""- - J
WT7w AMKItlCA.N FORK CITIZEN, SATURDAY M UUST C. 1010 NUMllUIt 1(J
yOl" A"
Hi MMf -" ' ' '" " " '" -' I I, mi , ,,., ... , I II "' ! . . , II II II I
Seven Local People
In 'Auto Accident
1 AND MRS. JAMES CHIPMAN, JR., AND DAUGHTER
DOT MISSES ELIZA AND JEAN HINDLEY, DAUGH
I TERS OF BISHOP AND MRS. J. R. HINDLEY, MISS
I MYRTA WOOTTON, DAUGHTER OP SENATOR AND
I MRS JOHN H. WOOTTON AND MISS RUBY WOOTTON,
I DAUGHTER OF MR. AND MRS. J. A. WOOTTON NAR
I ROWLY ESCAPE DEATH.
I Probably the worst auto accident in which local people were
I irticipjuits 'ais the one at 7:35 Saturday night, when a north
Luii'l Orom car c0'1'(,t'(I w'tn nu H0V(U passenger Ilnynes'enr,
Blrivcn by James Chipnian, Jr., and in which Mr. Chipman, his
wife their daughter, Dorothy, Miss Jean llindley, Miss Eliza
jlimlloy, Miss Kuby Wootton and Miss Myrtn AVootton were
iJilillL'.
Mr chipman suffered a compound
fracturo of the right log tliroo inches
above the knee nnil wbb badly bruised.
Mrs. Chipman was badly bruised
from head to foot and it was first
I thought Bhc had sovoral ribs broken.
I Miss Chipman surfcred a compound
fracture or tho right leg below tho
knee. Sho was also badly cut and
braised and received a scalp wound
requiring stitches.
I Miss Joano llindley, with n doublo
fracture at the baso of the skull was
injured the woist and tho doctors at
first gave little hope of her recovery.
I Miss Eliza llindley received sonic
bad leg bruises and an nwful shock
H and has been a very sick girl all week,
although sho Is ablo to bo around.
I The two Wootton girls, who nro
I cousins, partly Jumped and wcVo part
1 1; thrown ami escaped with bruises
and a eevcro shock.
I Doctors Worlton and Thorup of Lchl
lcre telephoned and rushed tho In
I Jared to the Lehl hospital where they
were soon Joined by Drs. Noyos, Kelly
htcr by Drs. Curtis anil Hammond of
Salt Like City Two special nurses
from Salt I.ako wcro sent down, the
ortm odlclals camo on tho first car
"alter they learned of tho nccldont,
relatives hurried from Salt Lnko and
American Fork nnd ovorythlng poss-
Ible for their relief was done.
The patty wan out driving for plons-
ore. They had been to I.ehl nnd wcro
B rcturnins north from a visit to tho
Sugar fuctory Nono or tho occupants
H of the car saw or heard tho nppronch-
ins Orcm car till they wont to cross
B the railroad track When tho motor
B man b.w that Mr. Clilpman was about
H to cross the tmrk ho Bounded his gong
B tigorously Tho enr was then about
B MO feet nway Mr. Chlpmnn's first
H bpulso was to turn off on another
B angle of tho road hut his tight front
thcel was over tho high rail nnd ho
Bj found It Impossible, to get nwny. Ills
B wst Impulse was to rovorso nnd get
B off that way but by this tlmo tho -10-B
ton electric ear was on him and tho
crash came
B Tnft Oiem car Btruck tho auto In
B te right uio at an anglo, tearing
off the front wheel. smashing tho sldo
of the car i wring off (ho top and
B tiroMni; tr out sldownys off tho
I WE MEN Hi " 1
I NARROW ESCAPE
BH Uinni.it nnd Harry Urow his
B 'on'lndau hud narrow escapes from
B ath tn ., silver City mine- In TIntle
lirovv was W0InK t til0
Mttom or (i hrt sovornl hundred feet
"Povcr ii t01, of which' Is a tunnel
hlcli Mr n-nnett wns employed.
ro is n irai. door over tho collar of
' slwrt protect tho mon rrom
wlnB thinp , fnu on thom wllIo ,i)( ..
I IrVf0"""" U"r" Smo 0Il cnll0HH-
3 hi h 'h' (l""' llft" B0 tlmt n cnr
M wt li.nnott intended wheeling
m w a..iontallv fell Into tho
. Wm1, ""w whs at tho bottom.
m tt'n some almost miraculous mnnner
.. fr 8M"' hen It had fallon 20
BJ ,, 7 nml "'nnctt stuck with It.
I n "'"' ''", ,,,,"8(' Tho whools.
for,.,,1" " 'Token with great
i3 '"' " know something was
w V.'"" ""'' '""J'HwI Into ono corn
M Hum Vn """ ' ",KH lll Mow that
br J kni"'1 hlln ,nnny- "t
I ac . '""'""K In tho shaft both
,. , ,,ppn ,1Hc(1
H i f,.
Unicits ivi:sti(j.ti:
The m l'TIX(! SYSTKM.
1 inn on"' nml Clt' C011""'1 ninflo
M eiML ' 'Wo hominy night to in-
hhh " now 8tr(,ot llRlitlng system
m " Proposed tn Instltuto In
track. Tho fender on tho Orcm car
wns broken nnd camo near derailing
tho car which was loaded with peo
ple, who when they saw the frightful
accident, screamed and woro soon out
giving all assistance possible.
Motorman Qoodlandcr, who wns op
erating tho Intcrurban car, says that
ho had no Idea tho Chipman car in
tended crossing tho track. Soon as
ho saw their Intention, ho applied tho
nlr brakes and sounded the warning.
When tho two came together it broko
his air connection nnd his car slid
200 feet further beforo ho could get
It stopped with his hand emergency
brake. Tho Orcm car crow broko n
window In tho flour mill close by to
get at a telcphono and being tumble
to find one, rnn toward Lohi and meet
ing an auto took it back to I.clil to
summon medical help.
Tho auto, which is a seven passen
ger Haynos, costing $1,700, Is nlmoht
a completo wreck. Mr. Chipman had
only purchased It about six weeks be
fore. Ho nover drove- It at a fast rato
and his friends nro unable to account
for tho nccldont. Owing to tho prom
inence of tho people In tho nccldont
It wns the solo topic of conversation
In tho two towns for sovoral days. A
score of nuton wcro in front of the
hospital-for hours aftor tho accident
took place, and scores of mnchlnes
visited the scene of tho accident tho
dny following.
Just beforo wo go to press tho doc
tors rcpoit that they nro nil making
satisfactory progress. Miss Hlndloy
Is still suffering from paralysis on
ono sldo of her fnco but tho doclorn
hollevo that tills condition will grad
ually disappear. Mrs. Chipman Is im
proving, but she still suffers from pain
In ono of her legs. An X-rny plcturo
will bo taken today to dctormine
whether sho has a fracture or not.
Sho still continues to havo pain In
her neck also, although sho Is con
siderably Improved and continues to
improve .InmoH Chipman, Jr., who
wns suffering from paralysis of tho
bowels has entirely recovered from
this nnd Is continuing to improvo nice
ly. Miss Chipman is continuing to
mend nicely and Is making the most
rapid progress of all.
Tho doctor nro vory well pleased
with tho progress thoy nro nil making
and say all will recover completely.
this city.
Investigations nre still being con
ducted and If the now system Is adopt
ed, tho two dopot streets. Main and
Confer Streets will bo lighted from
tho eontor Instead of from tho sides
nnd with lights similar to tho ono
now swinging In front of tho Citizen
ofllco.
n
W Auto Trip to Yellow slnne.
Holier Hates, Kulien Chipnian nnd
James Drown and families will form
an nuto party, who will leave noxt
week for n tour of tho Yellowstono
National Park. Thoy will mnko the,
trip In automobiles and tnko their
ci'inplng outfits with them.
DICKERSON MAKES
ANOTHERINVENTION
Walter Dlckorson has gotten out
anothor Invention that promlsos to
bring fnnu to his name. It Is u do
inountnhlo rlm for automobiles. Tho
rim Is In threo parts and enables ono
to tnko off a punctured tiro and put
It on again in but fraction of tho tlmo
required by those nowln use. It has
been pronounced by exports to bo n
world winner and to bo oven a bottor
money maker thnn tho Dlckcrson tim
er for Ford nutos that will be placed
on.
CANYONJJEWS
Work has been progressing rapidly
on the Pacific mill for tho past weok.
Grading on tho several benches for
the different sections of tho building
Is prnetlenlly completed and work on
tho foundations will eomtnenco noxt
week. Tho first car of heavy machin
ery has been delivered on tho ground,
and tho second car Is looked for from
Denver with any train. A bunch of
tennis havo beon busy nil week haul
ing pnrtn of a dlsmnntled mill from
Hlnghnm Canyon that will bo used in
tho construction of the Pacific mill.
When this Is assembled tho work on
construction will progress rapidly nnd
beforo tho end of noxt month, tho mill
will be consuming over CO tons of oro
per day and sending tho concentrates
to tho smelter.
Manager Charles Karl has had n
force of men busy nil week getting his
compressor plant set up nt tho Knrl-
Knglo property In Mnry Ellon Oulch.
and Monday his men, undor tho sun
orlntcndency or Charles Sabcy, will
commenco pushing tho 27G foot tunnel
with tho old of power drills, the I
first to bo used slnco tho recent ro- I
vlvlng of mining In tho Canyon.
The Karl Knglo Is now approaching
tho first of tho mineralized fissures
for which the 1400 foot tunnol Is bo
ing run, so that with tho Installation
of power drills Important dovolop
monts will commenco coming In fast
right along from now on
Tho Tyler Silver Mines Co.. Is tho
nnmo of n now company organized
during tho past week with Ocorgei Ty
ler, president; J. W. Storrs, secretary;
Charles Onlsford, Ocorgo Storrs nnd
,. X. Oakley directors. Their property
embraces ten claims Hay Stato Kxton
slon, Xo's. 1 to 10 nnd Ho on tho
mountain south of tho nay State. Tho
ground lies well nnd is said to bo well
mineralized. Tho Intention of tho
new company Is to' join with tho Hay
Stato In pushing their deep tunnel nnd
then prospect the Queen ground from
this sourco nt a depth of about 1,000
fc"ot- ... .. r
1 tV sjt lV
I KHJah Cutlor and two mining or
glneers of Salt Lako woro In Amer'
can ForkTlfcsday nnd went up ft
Canyon to mnko an examination of th
Ulshton May Dny property near the
Power plant. It Is reported they wnr.
well pleased with tho showings n'1
genornl formation, but thoy woro noil:
committal as to what would bo cm-
I bodied In their roport.
ft rt ft
John h. McKInney, a wealthy sheep
mail, spent several days tho past
wcok In American Fork Canyon. Ho
Is associated with Joseph Johnson it
tho Horseshoe group north of the
Pacific and has groat faith that the
Canyon is going to bo ono of the
stnto's big mining camps.
Sovornl moro men wero taken to the
Queen property Thursday an two
shifts ore now driving on tho vein
which In tho fnco of tho 40-foot tunnel
is showing a foot of good carbonate
ore.
Tho same vein crosses tho Canyon
Into the Hog initio nnd there Is talk or
running n Joint tunnol from n point
down tho Canyon and when reached
would bo drifted on to tho north by the
Hog pcoplo and to tho south by ih"
Queen. Tho vein continues on south
into tho Miller Hill.
ik t m
Ore was struck In tho Dutchman
tunnel this week. Thoro Is about ono
foot of it In the left hand drift tlmt
runs as high as 120 ounces In sliver
Tho old workings nro now practically
nil cleaned out and soma vigorous de
velopment work will bo dono to mnko
tho Dutchninn ono of tho big mliif
of tho stnto.
UTAH COUNTY MAY
HAVE JP HORSE
Pieslilent S. h. Chipman Is bi-lns
discussed In certain stato political ir
clos as a strong possibility for tlio
Hepubllcnn nomination for Coventor.
lie will not permit his name to no
candidate, but will attend tho state
convention as n strong supporter of
Nophi I. Morris.
Mo will notp ornilt his naino to no
to tho convention as a regular can
didate. Hut It Is his friends who nro
talking of running him as a compro
mise enndldato In case of thoro boliiK
n deadlock between Morris, Spry ami
JonkliiB, tho threo loading cnndldote.
Presldont Chipman when asked for a
stntemont simply smiled nnd remark
ed that under somo conditions po'
ihly ho might bo In tho "hands of Ids
friends." Delegates from other parts
I
A WW SNAPS :.'
I" I
J':
We have a
, Few Summer Snaps Left jj
j that if the customers only knew
i what BARGAINS they w ere, they jj
i would go like' hot cakes. !
Somo Jf.'5 to $4 'l indies Tan Some Whito Canvas and Ono Lot Men's nnd Boys' ' 'J
and Blade Silppors Sizes Nnbudc Shoes all sizes Oxfords, Blade and Tan 'M
2'o, 15 and :' Clean up 2'L. to fi for Ladies Sale worth $4 to $5 pair Clean I;
Price, pair Price, pair up Price, pair v
I $1.00 1 $1.50 $1.25 , i;
Long Silk Gloves, all Colors worth $1.75 Sale to dean up.only 50c pair 'A
Long Lisle Gloves worth 75c to $1.00 all colors-Clean up onl.y 25c pr. M
White Embroidery Floun-1 Muslin Gowns, One lot Ladies House 1
Jt I Muslin Skirts, Dresses nice assortment, j:'1
cinK 4; in. wide worth Muslin Princess Slips, all sizes worth $1, $1.25 '
' $1.25 per yd.-Clean ui IJmwor Combinatmiis, and $1.50-Coan up lor $
All worth $1.2o to $1.00 one week only now on Irs
W only each SALE Sale. s
35c 69c 1 75c '
Children's Dresses, all sizes worth up to 85c Clean up only 49c each 1 . FvMi
Ladies Panama $6 Hats 3 only left, your choice, each as Ion as they last $1.00 I .?; . tfi
Children's and Misses Hats, anything we have, your choice 25c each v 1:11
L. D. S. Summer Garments, all sizes Only 69c and 75c pair - - ;ws
All Men's Straw $1.25 to $1.75 1 One Lot Men's Children's Wash t S
' Hnic ifnviii w i.. Sport Shirts I Drugs Shirts All Suits, worth $1 to AW,
- JJLnts-ttoitli .Mo Men's and Youuk I sizes worth up to $2.50 each Clean JM
v' $3 Cleanup- - Men's Clean up $2 Clean up up Price- - -. s- ,4ffi3ii: 'j.
99c 95c 99c ' 251 Off ;-wj
Men's Summer Underwear .'!S One Lot Men's Summer Undershirts. "'Igt
to 44 sizes Value 50c and (55e Values 50c each all sizes, all colors As lonir. .34
each vour price, each as they last YOUIl CHOICE M
25c. 2 for 25c . I
This is the last BIG CLEAN UP SALE this summer 1
CHIPMAN'S CASH PRICES J
COUNT M
Now is your chance for Snaps and Bargains. We M
, lose money on every item. YOU GET IT jjl
Chipman's Big Red Store 1
AMERICAN FORK, UTAH, "THE BUSINESS CENTER." i'Jj
of tho county havo expressed n will
ingness to do some nctlvo work should
tho occasion dovelop.
-
III.ACK HAWK WAK VIlllIIANS
AT LAKH NKXT YiV.KK
Tho lllach Hawk War Veterans an
nual camp flro will ho hold nt tho
,l'tah I.ako llosorl on August 8, 9, 10
and 11th. Tho conimltteo of tho north
end of tho County hns been down thoro
nnd selected ciimplnB grounds, pas
tures for tho horses, etc.. and found
plenty of shado for all tho tents and
wagons. All necessary arrangements
havo boon made. American Fork nnd
l.oli I will render tholr program Wed
nesday morning and Pleasant Orovo
.and Wasatch County Thursday morn
ing. All towns south of I'lensant
! Orovo In Utah County will give tholr
I program somo tlmo during tho four
,days moot.
I n
lVi: HUNT IH'TTKH n'HAI'I'KHS.
iVSARY PICKFORD "Little Pal" 1
As an Indian Maid in an appealing Alaskan ;
Story. Scene laid in Kilisuso, Alaska, during .""
gold rush. t
Also Paramount Pictograph and Paramount ' '' f
Bray Cartoon Fine for the Indian War Vet- "f
erans. , i
7 REELS 10c and 15c J J
Tuesday and Wednesday at the n
Bronx 'iP
I
