??
Q-
rZi9
Vi .0
INaE-PENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 16
CINCINNATI, OHIO, AUGUST 5, 1916
One Dollar a Year
IV
4?&U.
f
Suspend Meeting and Retire To Banquet Hall Only Members Present and the Affair
Resolved Itself Into An Entertaining and Instructive Round Table Talk Everybody
Felt Good, Had His Say and Applauded His Brother's Efforts.
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was called to order by
President Jos. Cullcn. The minutes of
the previous meeting were read and
adopted.
Upon motion, duly seconded, the
Council decided to go into social session
and retire to the banquet hall, which is
situated in another part of the building.
The annual banquet of the Building
Trades Council was served by McIIugh
and Hock in the Rathskeller, Twelfth
and Walnut, and was a great success
both from the eating, and get-together
point of view.
This year the Council tried a new idea.
In the past the invited guests did all the
talking, and talked about some things
that the delegates were not interested in ;
but last Thursday night the invited
guests were eliminated, and after the
delegates had attacked a first-class chick
en dinner, the banquet resolved itself
into a round tabic talk and every dele
gate from each craft had something to
say, and it-was the first time that all the
delegates sat at a festive board that they
were not guarded in what they said on
account of "the company." But Thurs-
like a large family reunion
President Cullen presided in his usual
good humored way. Guv Ilccker and
Joe Chuck sang several times. Col.
Tom McEwcn delivered an address;
Phil Fischer spoke and advocated some
progressive ideas. Robt. Sickman told
of his thirty-five years' experience in the
bunding crafts.
Ed Lane told the members of "some
truths" about unionism.
Fred Hock recalled the condition of
the Building Trades Council when he
took the office of business agent; he re
cited the ups and down from that day
to this.
Ed O'Connor, former president, de
livered an excellent optimistic address;
he was proud of the working agree
ment with the employers' association
which eliminated strikes.
Jim Davis, of the ironworkers, told
several humorous stories.
James McIIalc, on behalf of the tar
roofers, thanked the Council for the
many benefits received through its iu
lluencc. Jos. Noldc, the financial secretary
treasurer, told the members of the mag
nificent financial condition of the
Council.
Robt. Kuhlmnn presided at the piano
in his usual entertaining manner.
Brothers llogan and Smith, of the hod
carriers," plajed a great part in the en
tertainment of their fellow members.
Capt. Cullen told of the time he ship
ped from Baltimore to Labrador with a
load of hogs.
A few minutes to twelve Brother
Kuhlman played "My Country, 'Tis of
Thee," and ever j body stood up and sang,
after which President Cullen wished
everybody good night.
OlM'OSK ILLEGAL STRIKES.
Xew York. The executive council of
the United Textile Workers' union has
declared against strikes called in viola
tion of laws every member has agreed
to uphold. It is declared that these il
legal strikes are easy to inaugurate by
a few who would curry popular favor
while some agitation is on for better
conditions.
The executive council intimates that
this law should be obejed by the men
and women who made it and they an
nounce that in the future advocates of
illegal strikes will be expelled from the
union.
FREIGHT HAXDLERS STItlKI
Bloomington, III. Illinois Central
railroad freight handlers suspended work
to enforce a 10-hour day and wage in
creases of 2': cents an hour for truck
ers and $5 a month for checkers. Form
er conditions were a 11 and 13-hour da
at l"'2 cents an hour
Building
-fewi
EDWARD
Republican Central CoiiiiiiitU-iMiiiiu of the Fifth Ward and Candidate
for Re-election.
ICdward lleimekes, the popular young; leader of the Kepiihliean party
of the Fifth Ward, Is a candidate for re-election to the Central Com
mittee. ' ' ' .
Mr. lleimekes was horn and reared right in the Fifth Ward, and he
knows thousands of voters who were his school-hoy friends, hence his
urcnt success in the two years he had charge of the ward. i
When lleimekes was elected two years ag;o, the ward was in very
had shape, as it had gone from 1,000 to l,-0() Democratic. Hut under
the leadership of lleimekes at the last election it gave a Republican ma
jority of 15-1 quite a chimge.
lleimekes' niaiii support is union labor, and lie has proven himself
to hi' their friend whenever culled upon, and every man who carries a
card in the Fifth Ward should vote for Ed lleimekes.
I'ICTER SMITII'SUCCUMHS.
Cleveland, O. Peter Smith, former
Business Agent of the Structural Iron
Workers' Union, who was convicted and
sentenced to a foiir?ycar term for com
plicity in' the MeX'amara dynamiting j
conspiracy, and who was released from
the Leavenworth Fetlenll" "Prison by
President Wilson several months ago,
died here t the home of a brother.
LAHOR VOTES SUPPORT.
Atlantic City, X. J. At a meeting of
the Executive Council of the American
Federation of Labor here it was decided
to support the railroad brotherhoods in
their efforts to secure an eight-hour day,
preferably by arbitration, "but the Fed
eration will stand solidly behind them if
recourse to a strike is necessary "
Trades Council
HENNEKES
' " i i . ty i'
MORE READLV TIIAX WAR.
1 larrisburg, Pa. Commissioner of
Labor Jackson says, that if every man
of the regular army, along the Mexican
border, receives a wound in battle, the
.aggregate number eg? wounded would not
cr7ua'l'"tlic' roster o'f thosc-'-wounded in
the mills of Pennsylvania during the
first 152 days of this car, f-
It is shown that during the period
from January 1 to June 1, 1010, 951
workers were killed and 100,287 in
jured, and on an average 101 workers
were killed every month during the first
five months of the ear and an aeragc
of 20,218 were injured each month.
MIXXESOTA rXIOXl.STS MICET.
Hibbing, Milui. At the annual con
vention of the state federation of labor
President Hall and Secretary-Treasurer
Lawson were re-elected. Faribault was
chosen as the next convention citj
HON. CHARLES E. HUGHES
In Ills Speech of Acceptance, De
clares That the Republicans Stand
for tile Conservation of Labor.
"We stand for the conservation of the
just interests of labor. We do not de
sire production, or trade, or efficiency
either, for its own sake, but for the bet
terment of the lives of human beings.
We shall not have any lasting industrial
prosperity unless we buttress our indus
trial endeavors by adequate means for
thc protection of health ; for the elimi
nation of unnecessary perils to life and
limb; for the safeguarding of our future
through proper laws for protection of
women and children in industry ; for in
creasing opportunities for education and
training. We should be solicitous to in
quire carefully into even grievance, re
membering that there are few disputes
which cannot easily be adjusted if there
be an impartial examination of the facts.
We make common cause in this coun
try, not for a few, but for all ; and our
watchword must be co-operation, not
exploitation. Xo plans will be adequate
save as they are instinct with genuine
democratic sympathy.
"I stpnd for adequate Federal Work
men's Compensation laws, dealing not
only with the employes of government,
but.iwitm .those, employes wiioarcen
It BaKed4nfrterfitato--comm erceu andean
arclfoUiJ
subject to the hazard of injury, so that
those activities which are within the
sphere of the constitutional authority
of Congress may be dealt with under a
suitable law.
"We propose to promote by every
practicable means our agricultural in
terests and we include in this program
an effective system of rural credits. We
faor the wise conservation of our na
tural resources. We desire not only that
they shall be safeguarded, but that they
shall be adequately developed and used
to the utmost public advantage."
DISPUTE OVER WAGES
UNSETTLED
Hut Glass Manufacturers and Work
ers Arrange Further Conference
for Monday.
Atlantic City, X. J. Xo decision was
reached concerning a 15 per cent in
crease in wages for the manufacture of
punch tumblers and stem ware, after a
meeting between the Flint and Lime
Glass Manufacturers' Association and
the American Flint Glass Workers' Un
ion, which lasted from 0 in the morning
until 0 on July 2Mh.-
Manufacturers hold out hope for a
raise in wages, but not so great as that
asked, when the committees resume their
sessions on Mondaj morning. A wage
increase of between 10 and 15 per cent
lias already been secured for iron mold
gatherers.
Prosperity, which the manufacturers
claim has made the past ear the best
business ear in the histoo of the world,
and which has nut the industry on a
profit-making basis after 15 ears of
struggle, is actuating the demands, which
are greater this year than ever. Punch
tumblers and similar ware are particu
larly suhicct to demand because, with the
I cessation of foreign trade, many of the
more delicate and fragile glass articles
which have been left to Belgian and
French manufacturers have been made
in this country.
The manufacturers claim they are do
ing their best to meet the workers half
way, but assert that the profits are not
so great as the workers are led to be
lieve, and there is danger of a falling off
after the war.
George W. Yost, chairman, and several
members of the Wage Committee of the
Green Glass Bottle Manufacturers' As
sociation, have arrived for the wage con
ference with the Glass Bottle Blowers'
Association, which will commence Mon
day. The workers in that trade demaiul
raises ranging from 25 to 10 per cent.'
Thc advance not onl the prosperity
conditions, which hae increased the
reus. - .-TragtwtaswgrowasMfil
HEXHV G. HAUCK
Henry G. Hauck, Assistant Prose
cuting Attorney, is a candidate to
succeed himself as a member of the
Central Committee representing the
20th Ward. Ir. Hauck has be.en
active for years, Inning served in
tlie Hoard of Education and City
Council. Union labor has always
found it friend in Mr. Hauck.
Mr. Hauck has heen Secretary of
the City and County "Republican
CentruLComniittee. We bespeak.
roraiiniithfesuinpj-t;.Qt,urrcu&ecs
vtho vote at the IlepuliIicaiV" Pri
maries on August Sth.
profits of the manufacturers, but point
to wage concessions made in the past
when the workers submitted to a de
crease of 25 per cent on the introduction
of machinery. They ask some of this
back, as well' as their share in the pros
perity which has flooded the industry.
The inarm facturers are not inclined to
jield very far to the glass bottle men.
They declare that apparent profits are
largely fictitious, because of an advance
of between SO and 40 per cent in the cost
of materials and manufacture. They
also dread, so they say, a sudden slump
after the war.
SALIC OF HAT,
Which Had Union Label Without
Authority, Arouses Labor Men.
' Central Labor Council determined to
have its Executive Board present to the
United Hatters' Association a charge
made by a delegate that a Cincinnati
manufacturer and dealer had sold him
a hat bearing the union label, although
the firm was nonunion. He exhibited
the hat to members.
The Trades Union Laundry reported
fair progress in the sale of shares of
stock. Max Schuld, of the Butchers'
Union, said he expected to win the strike
within two weeks. Delegates from the
Bakers' Union announced they would
continue their tight against nonunion
bakeshop.
A'l motion picture houses, except one
in Covington, have signed the union
scale, it w?s reported
A special meeting will be held August
20 to select a Grand Marshal for the La
bor Day parade. Union- which will be
led by bands will vote for position.
STATIC ICMI'OVICICS
Are Forced To Get Circulation For
Xew Daily, 'Tis Said.
Columbus, O. More than casual in
terest has been expressed by political
workers in the new requirement that has
been placed on state emplojes, particu
larly Assistant Fire Marshals. It is re
ported man of these officials have been
assessed subscriptions to a new dailj po
litical organ in Columbus which is being
published in the interest of the state ad
ministration. One deputy was said to
have been assessed twent) -five annual
subscriptions. Others have been touring
their territory getting subscribers for
the new paper and being forced to neg
lect their usual duties, it is reported.
'..si.
vuu.
