THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 1,90
A Democratic 'journal, devoted to Local and General Newe, Literature, Science, Agriculture, Etc.
VOL. XL COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, AUGUST 5, 1916 NUMBER 42
Official Proceedings of the Grant Par
ish School Board.
Colfax, La., July 22, 1916.
Pursuant to adjournment on July 8,
1916, the board of school directors of
the parish of Grant, La., met in legal
session to consider the question of fi
nancing the schools of the parish.
The board was called to order by the
president with J. H. McNeely, E. A.
Wall, T. C. I.incecum, N. S. Roberts '
and M. E. Jackson present; A. W.
Stewart and I. J. Rhinehart absent.
A quorum being present the board
proceeded to transact the following
business:
'1'he following resolution lan o)ff1ered by N. S.
Rotbert.s, who imo1ved il3 alfdoptIonI,
Wilerea, the-re hsll- leerl a requeist 1made of
thin *hooul board ti1 ,oe of th,. tax-payers of f
ward two. ankying thatt a s ianit electiion be olr
dered in alid for the said wiard. at whichh hall t
be anlbuinlted the followinig lrolnsithin, to- wit: t
I'I t I 'llSITI( IN.
To 1.vy ai tax of five mills for flie ventrs on all
property in waird ftwo. srn, nl plarish. l.,11uini"1111.
and that fractronal ilirt of MifIholl diitrhl No :I
lo, ated partly ill ward I . alte.J h to tal.lltll ll.
aniuall:, for a period of thi yrllnr. thf fundsl
thus derlvI to b"i appolrtiIonlled aI-ordItng to
thle lseeIsinet i nlll Ilation lilolf th.I oIriglinal n
clihool distrnct Isub-dlvi"ilnsl to si1h Iorlginal
sllchooil distric t uhb.divlvilsi. for use, in the origi
nal lch, oll ditrict nsub-div.i.ion of nald walrd a
and that fractillonal part olf 1school district No. 6 ,
loated lu ward 3. suhl funds to be usedl for gen
eral el3ucatio3 al purllpoes.
whreas. In the opilnion of1 this blard such Il
spelial Cietleionll 111s 1u.H ryv an1d advIIable, r
lie it re-ldvedl by the Board of School lDirec
tor lof the 'Parish of Grralt. l.ouiaiailna, as fol
lows!
St-tlonll I. That a lspecial elerction ae alld tlhe t
Ssame is hereby ordelrel to beI held in ward t wo
and ithat frartlonal part of wl-hool distrlct No. i
located In watrd three. Grant parish. L.t,, t31t
TIC ESDAY. SEPT. 5. 1916.
at which tllme shall be subnitted the fulloinrl t
propositiou. to-a It:
PRII'OPOSITION 1
to levy a special tax of five millls on the dollar 6
on all property In ward two and that fractional r
part of s..hool district No. 6 Ilcated In ward 3,.
(Irant parish. I,oulniana. subject to State taxa
tion. annually, for a period 3f1 five years, begin
nulg with the year 19ll16 and ending with the year
1020. both yearn Inclusive, the.funds thus derived
to be apportioned acording to the aemsnments
of the original schooll district sail-divislonn to
such original shiiool district subl-diviloun for
use In the or5iiginal s3chool dlstrict sub-divliiilr
ward and that fractional part of s'hoiol
d ,IJated n ward three. naid funds
to be used  tI  eIdaucatiloal plurposes.
Section 2. That t ary of thina board be (
and3 he It hereby insntructed t ltwe prepared fIor
ua at s1ld elet'tliln a i-ulttliiellt ulll31ter of ballo ts
oil eat'lh of which shalll be lprintedl theprloplolttion
mentione il 133 Se'tiou i of this resollutiou., ad in
the following folrm:
PItll)POSIITII 5N.
I'ro.postlon to levy a special tax ,of
five 3mllls .i t e dollar on all roper- Yes
ty til ward two) and that fractilonal
part of school district No. 6 hlIated
in ward three. lirllt plirish, l.a.. sub
jet to Sitate taxation. anlllallt, for
a I.rld of five years, beginning withl
the year 191is and tdiilng with the
year 1910,. bolth vyears lllilnsive.. the
1Uands thus derivedl t1o be appo3rtionled
according to3 the a lssessments of the No
original cllhool dtltrict lsubl.ivisiilons
to such rigillal wllhooIl dIltrict sltb.
dlvlhlls, for use in theolrigiualhhoIol
district lub-divisions of maid card
two, and that fractional part of whool,
district No. it located lIn ward three.
aoid funlds to be used for general 31edu
ratiolnal purposes.
Taxable villuation $........ ...
NInLnaturlre of vliter.....
NOTICE TO VOTER.
To vote In favor of the propositionl submitted
oil this ballot plaen i X I mark il the squlllare R
ter tile w ord Yes. lll d ttto vote agalillnst the propo
sitionll lplace a siiillar mark in tile square after
thile word No.
And the se.retary of this board be and lie In
hereby, I1nstctnctl to have Irepary d for use at
the said electloiti all the nleceseary ballot boxes,
tally sheets, lits of voltersn assurred valuatliol
of priperty and compiled statements of voters
In unnuber anIld amounIIlit.
5 'tihou 3i. That the voltern lf that frcltinal
part of schiooll dlttrlct No,. 6 keatfed lu ward 3.
shall have the right to participate and vote at
the Bruce prellnct In the said uiird 2.
Section 4. That the polling planes for the said
election shall we lit I'ollock. Bruce, Simlltils and
Bagdad previnclltl, ltlld the following shall serve
as comm3llinillultiers anid c.-rks oif elec.tion:
Pollock--i. J. Hattaway., W. P. (iluylee anid
W. H. Singley etmulllalitllrln 1; Filton '3 0 uilln,.
clerk.
llrullee-lvertonl Thlplll33n3. iR. ft. RItn ilih 31ld
E lioha t Iea . I3O0 3 l ihtalllitern;: I i .. I. N gellt. Clerk
3ll3lllll33-Wt. E. 3'hll kndlr. .iIlhn (urry anil Ben
(larl hngt nn colll inolll tllLiwlr' ; .·1 I toulson,)l. (·lterk
tntgdad-M.i. Bucke. r, Jo.hnl M. Anthonlly aSid
J. L.. I Iray, nllitiintini-nra; L. E ll3i1Illfu, eterk.
The said ele*tlll shlall Iw held ullner the State
lan applIcablte thertto.
S ,-.tllon ,5. Th i3 t the pri id3 nt i f thub lh lird In
bereby lnstrun'ted ii give nuotil of the aiiil
eletloll hierelili ordlered Iby hili rllnprttl-1ii l. 333
ti pbllnithel axi. irdllng to law. and Inl tilhe 3ihi
pr11h1iiaatIon tlii nItill a3iloUn3l3e t3llhat at 11 ,'
lodk oii Seplt 5, 1l1l. tlu I, oard will ilIlet at
their offle at the -cvurt hl0o33I at ('illnx., Glrlllt
parlnh. La.. t 0 plenlll tlie lIalllot 1o3x. examlinle
al1d elolnlt the balilot ill umltiber asld almoullt.
exaelalne lid canvamln tile returlns, a5d declare
the reuaolt 311 the electi.t
The mNotioinll nI33ade Iy N. S. tRotbert for the
adoptlion of the aborv reolution was seconded
by T'. '. t.li33cwlU. a33d Lbeing plal·cd tfllre the
hlarI 13.y the hbalr It wil uOtanlilmn)usly adopted.
all of the illmellmero preuule vting in the aftllrna
tire. alid the -haIr annlullced It carried.
J. I1. M-Nl-.EI.Y.
J. N. WARNKI. lPresident.
51'retary.
The folllowilng ordin;ane was intr ,du33-.3
lnd t3 ting duly 53c-onded3, It waVs ul0l3li
mounsl. ado1pt'dl to wit:
.\N ORIlINANtI~t
To g-roip dihirilt I:t. t14 aind 15. all sifi
at1d1 in -i3runt lParltsh. 1La., andil to dlis
triblutel all f33nd1 3L-rIi-ed fromln sp;-:-i.lf
33hoiol ;tx t-lunislls in salid grlTOUlid
d;strictn ii.-,rdlrng ti tile llriginal tcr
ritorhil 53utllivli ins h3 retlfore ,,i.3ting.
In acd.ordarc3" with the astsensm.nt of
slid .lintri. t
tle It ordl etenld h \ fill- thi P.,rishi ltnard
of ~chool Iiiru-ltors If P.irislh of ;rant.
La.. In legli sessiorn cIonlened;
Seetlon One. That sc33o3l3 districtl Nos.
13, 14 and 15 all Ituated in Grant Parish,
Lai.. Iand they are ltr-jbiy grouped inilt i.
one distri, t to h," kniown as sc looll dist i'I
13-14-1-,.
S.ctitn Two H." it ordainedl. -t,. That -
all funds de-rived from secial school It.\ t
elecwtlons wIch may hereafter lheI hld andl
ordred.l in said grouped district shall .H i
app.. rtirnedt therein awi,'rding to the, ;is
s,-ssmentst of the origintal territorial su- h
idivisioins to su.ch original subdivilsion fr -r
us,. in thei original sulllivision.
Section Three : I. it further ord.in,-lI
t.,.. That all orllnl ln.c s or parts of o.lo \
nants unlrtary to or in conflict with tlhi"
orlinanct'- are herebyl r.te led. andli thial l
this tl dinlnce. shall go Intto t .ffect litorl,-.
diat.-ly upon its pas age.
I nanin,ousi. uadplt'd this July '2. 11101
The following resolution wsas offer.,i lby
E: A W\all and se.,-oni-ld by N. S. ItRo.
erts, who tmoved its adoption.
W\hereas. there hias Ie-n a reqtellst
madOe by the propetrty tax payers of
sclhool districts Nos. 1:1. 14 and 15, eonstI
tutinlg grouped district 13-14-15., eligible
to vote at such election, askiing that a
special election be ordered In and for -aid
liset(ct, at which shall Ite submitted the
following proposltion, to wit:
To le-vy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in Schol Distritl
No. 13-14-15. Grant Parish, La., subject
to state taxation. annually. for a p.rliol
of five" yealrs for genitral educ-ational pur
And. whereas, in the opinion of thi i
hioiid such special el-ection is nce.ssar.v
Ie.- it resolved by the Parish lhrmtrd of
School Itirectors of the Parish if Grant.
IL., as follows:
Section one. That a special ehltihon li
and the same Is he-reby ordered to bei
lh-lt in school district No. 13-11-13. (rant
Parish. L.a., on
TLIESDAY. SEPTEMIIER :. 1916.
at which shall be submitted the following
proiposltion, to wit:
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property In school dlls
trict No. 13-14-15, Grant Parish. La., sub
ject to state taxation, annually, for a pe-'
riod of five years for general educational
purposes.
Section Two. That the secretary' of this
board be and he is hereby instrutcted t
have pre.pared for use at said special eletc
tion a sufficient number of balots, or: ti
each of which shall be printed the ptlrlo
sition mentioned in section one of thisi:
resolution. andi in the following form:
PROPOSITION
Proposition to levy a special YS
tax of five mills on the dollar
on al property subject to state
taxation In school district Ni.
13-14-15. Grant Parish, La.. for
a period of five years. begin- NO
ning with the year 1916 and
ending with the year 1920, both
years inclusive, for general edu- f
cational purposes.
Taxable valuation ..........-- - ...... . . ....- .. ..--- t
nllgnature of voter .... ...... ................
NOTICE TO VOTERS
To vote in favor of the proposition or.
this ballot place a (X) mark in the square p
after the word "Yes", and to vote against
it place a similar mark in the square af- I
the the word "No".
And the Secretary of this board be and
he is hereby instructed to have prepared .
for use at said special election all the I
necesary ballot boxes, tally sheets, litse
of voters, assessed valuation of plot'rty. a
and compilled statement of voters in
number and amount. f
Section Three. That the polling plact
for the said special election shall be at a
I "ish Creek old school house and M. 11 ti
Nugent. W. J. Rambo. Jr., and Geo(-rget
Ober are appointed commnnissioners and .I t
L. Kent clerk of election to serve thereat.
The saild election shall I. conducltedi
under the laws of the state applicable
thereto.
Section Four. The President of this
hoard is hereby instructed to give notci t
-of the special election herein orderedt. I t
his proclamation to be published accord-l
ing to law; and in the said proclamlationl
he shall announce that at eleven o'clock
a. nt. on September 6. 1916, this board
will meet at the court house at Colfar.
Grant Parish. la.. and in open sessi, n
proceed to open the ballot box. examiine
and count the ballots in nunlber and
amtount. examine and canvass the retlirns t
and declare the iesult of the election.
The above resolution was adopted unan
imously, all the membenrs of the btard
hereinbefore nanled voting in favor
thereof.
J. H. McNEEI.Y.
President.
J. N. WARNER.
Secretary.
The following resolution was offereId by
M. E. Jackson and seconded by N. .'
Roberts. who moved its adoption:
Whereas, There has been filed with thits
board a written request by the taxpayers
of Clear Creek l)istrict No. 5, eligible
to vote at such election, asking that a
.pecial election be ordered in and for
said district. at which shall be submitted
the following proposition. to wit:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in School Iis
trict No. 5. Grant Parish. La., subject to
state taxation, annually, for a p.riod of
five years, for the purpose of building and
equipping school houses in said district.
I And, whereas, in the opinion of this
iboatrd such special election is nec-essary
and advisable.
Be it ordained by the Parish Board of
SSchool Directors of Grant Parish. La.. in
. legal session convened:
Section One. That a special election be
and the same is hereby ordered to bte hid
in School District No. 5, Grant Parish.
la.. on
a Ti'SDI)AY. SEPTEMBER 5. 1916.
at which shall be sulbmitted the follow
iltg prolposition, to wit:
S To Ivy a special tax of five mills iio
the dollar on all property in Schol'l tis
e trict Ni,. 5. Grant Parish. La.. subjct t ,
state tatxation, annually for a periodl of
fi\ve .vars. for the purpose of builmltng
m;tn equipping schuol housest ill saiLd dis
tritt.
, Section Twn. That the Secretary ie
I and hi is htereby instructed ti, have pre
-,atedl f,tr use at stlld special election a
isuffitlmnt number of hallots, on eatch of
t which shall be printed the proposition
it mentiontd in section one of this resolu
t ion. and in the followlng form.
PROPO.'4ITIO)N '
SProposition to levy a special YES
e tax of five mills on the dollar on
all tproperty subject to state tax
eation in Clhar Creek School lDis
trict No. 5. Grant Parish. L,,u
isiana. for a period ,f five
I years, tbginnlng with the year NO
. 1916 andti ,nting with the 3ear __
120, both .years Inclusive, for
tile purpose of building andl
,tquipping sih-oil houses in said
('lear (C'reek I istrict No. .
Ta xable vtthltstion ...................
tignaturt of voter.
NOTI('E TI) VOTEIt.
To s-te in favitr of till propositiiin sth
mititld i, this hallot ilati- a XtS mark in
thi square after the word "Yes . attl| to
\-vtie agalinst it piltce a simll:tr tmark in
tile spqu:ir aflter thi- wrd "Ni'.
.And the St-ri-tabv of this l-sard be and
ithe is h.rttbyv in:structttd tio have. plrelpared
Sfr uste at said speiial el,,ti, ion all t hII
: .l.tem stilry ltalt , Xes., ttlly shitel. , lists
,if voters. a sessed valuation of pr,,pertv.
taind comtlletl it -temnt nt of vottrs in ntuni
her and amount.
I Sectlion Tihr.e That thi ptlling ptite
t. fur thie snil I tie 'ial elht-tion shill ie at
.Antio-hi Churelt in said district Ni,
5 and I.. A. Paul. E T. Nugint atld I. H
t. Squires are appointed comnmissioners, and
It. 1. Nntight chlik of icititn to serve :
th e itt t
"'I'l, said . lction .b- ill he .ondnllte.I un
der the I iw of th,- state appli'abl,'
her(to.
St-etin f-our The Preside-nt of this
bhoard is. h('e*' ilnstu l,'t -d to g.Ti\'e noticell
of the sl ..cial l,..tion her. in . ,rheie-d, 1,,6
his Ilp-i lalir ltion to be i f bltlshed actio rd-i.
"ng t ta ; and i in the Stid proclamation tl
hc shall announl,. that ;t elev.-ni o'cloct,
.. Il .,,I S, pt. m ..r 0. 1'"l;, this board
rill aln .+.t ,at ti .." e."lu t hl ."se at (o' lf:t\. 1
.i:lnt l'arish- I .,t . and in Vitig issn sion
.u-d count ith ballots in number and "
.lnl .hel.Jr,- thei I--ilt of the elect Son.
Th," aiI.,vte reo.lution was adopted b.
uIan lnousl . a ll tlh t o l mll r"s of the ai
hoald to r.t-lmtbore namneUW voting in favor
J. 11. M.iNEi::I.Y. L
Preside-nt.
. N W\.tNEItR.
-'ecr eta ry.
Ti:' followting ltordinancei was introduceid.
.t.l . nr .igly . . o....... it was unani
iriouiily adol i. ; to wit:
AN (RILINANC' a
To group itIstri, t. 5x. 10 and 30, all situ
ald in ;'rant Parish, La., and to dis
Ichotol tl\ eh,. tions in said grouped t
districts aio 'cn, ig to the origin t ter
rntorial - .hdit i-ins ht.retoforr- existti j
in iat ilod nc- withi the assies.mtititt of
-.tl I di.irit. ti
I,- it ,rli tinteld hyi th. Parish Board of
ch lIir,, ofs oif l'.i:ih of Grant. LAt ., t
ui 1. o g.l s.-,s .in conventd;
io rion It-. Tihat schtool districts Nos.,
t l ;,n i 1 3t , :,!i situati i in Grant Parisih
.: . he and th.y at.- hereby grouped into s
one district to blie knowt'n as School t)ts- r
'riot ,-I1-:1.
.,ction Two. He it ordained, etc. That p
nil futls d,. rlvtdl fron special school tax o
tit. tills whit ch may he-reafter tie held and p
ord.ered in the. said grouped district shall t
l'e appo titioned therein according to the 2
ass.smients of the original territorial p
-suitlivisions to such original subdivision a
for usne in the orhigin:i suiudivision. V
Section Thrie. lie it further ord tlned. i
ieti. Tf-iat aill ordinancest or parts of or
dintnc-es contrary to or in conflict with T
this ordinarce ate htitrely replealed. and y
that this ordinance, shall go into effect
immediately uptln its pasisage.
I nt:littnosl adopted this July 22. 1916
Th. flto ink resolution was offered by n
T (C. i.inieiunt and seconded by E. A.
W.ait. who moved its adoption.
WVhereas, there has been a request
made by the property tax payers of
Schol Districts Nos. 8. 10 and 30, consti- I
tuting grutiped district 8-10-30. eligible ti.
vote at such election, asking that a ape- i
clal election htie ordered in and for said a
district, at which shall he submitted the a
follow ing proposition, to wit: b
To levy a specical tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in School Dis- f
trict No. 8-10-30, Grant parish La.. sub- 1
jest to state taxation, annually, for a pe
risIt of five years for general educational S
p)urp.ses. e
And. whereas, in the opinion of this c
lho)rd sit iI special election is necessary
and advisable. F
He it resolved hv the Parish Board of c
School i Iir-eetors of the Parish of ;trant. e
lta.. as follows:
Seition (ine. That a special election be d
and the satme is heret y ord.-red to be held t
'n Si.hool Itistrict No. 8-10-30, Grant
Parish. L.a . on
TI'"StltAY. SEPTEMBER 5. 1916. c
at wliichl shall t»t submitted the following 1
proposition, to wit:
To It-vv a ltp eial tax of five mills on t
the dolla.r on all iroperty in School Dis- a
tri t No. -lil-:30, ";rant lPatrish, La., sub- s
i-,t to st:t e t.ti ltit n. annually, for a pe
i itd of five years for general educational
ptirposet.
Section Two. That the' Secretary of a
this ilard I". and lie is h.-reby instructed a
to ha,\v prep;. red for use at said sprctial
l-.tion at sufficient numler of hallots, on I
*.Ch of t hich shall bte printed the prtpo
-ition mentioned in rseition one of thi- t
resolhtion, and in the following form:
iPROPOSITION
Proposl.iti-n to livy a special YES I
tax of five mills on tile dollar
on all propertyl'\ sulbject to state.
taxation In Stchool District No. a
- 1.1-a0. rtant larwih. La., for a r
i-riod of five, years, begninning NO
with the ~eiar 1916 and ending
aith thie year 1:"20. both years
inclusiv..i for cenera'l tducational
purtoses.
nIgIlature )of voter .
NOTICE TO VOTERS
To vote in favor of the proposition sub
ritted on this ballot place a 4--) mark in
theit squli.e aft.ir the word 'Yes", and to
vio, ag:tinst it plane a similar mark in
the sultire' after the word "N'N".
And tile Secrettary of this board be and
he is her.eby instructed to have prepared
for use at satid special election all tit(,
neces.sary hallot toxes, tally sheets. list::
of voturs. asscessedi valuation of property,.
:iii compiled -tattemint of voters in num
Ier itand at.t nt.
Sec tion Tthree. That the polling place
for the said si ecitll election shall be at
Sand Spur pirtecinct, and J. B. Maxwell.
.1. W. Harron and Georgt' Wagoner are
iplM intel .,nlnlissiionetrs and I. .1. Faulk
iit! lerk of etlection to serve thereat.
The said e1h.tion shall be condulcted un
thi' latws of the sta.lt apllicahle thereto.
Section Foulr. The President of this
ho)ard is herlchy instrucIted to give notti-e
of the sl Ptc ietl election herein ordered. by
his prolam nttion to be itpilished accord
ing t, liw; ;llhl in tile ilid proclamation
hi- shall atnnlunct. that a:t elev\'en o'clock
;t m. on Seltti mtber 6. 1916, thtis Iord
i ill i111 it ;It thit coitrt house at (Clfax.
tr:nt 'atrish. La . atld in open fe*:'on
prir'cctd t 1 oiti'n tile htllot box, eximint
.ind count the hallott in number and
mlllllunt. eXlllillne and eRnv,"ss the returtl.
.id di.- -lire thi- risult of the election.
Thit. io\-tv resitiltion w.st a:dopted Ilna:n
imousil. ittl menibers if th ite toard here
inl-fore named voting in favor thereof.
J. II. McNEEIY.
President.
J. N. WARNER.
The ftllhwing ordinance wais Introduced.
:nd h+lf'ng duity second-dl. It was unani
itiously aldoptied; to wlt:
AN ORT)INANCE
To gritip ristrlets Nis. 21. 23 and 31. all
situated in G;rant P.irish. Ia., andI to
distriiut, all fundsi derivedt from spelcial
scihotl tax telections i said grouped dis
trnt s aciirdingo i th~e original territo
riil sul~tivisiion heri-tofore exls:ing. in
atcornlance with the assessment of said
District.
Pt- it iordainl by the Parish IBosrd tf
<'ch-ol irectirs of the Parish of lratnt.
1,.. in ]hg.', session conlvenetd:
PSetion tnt' That sc.htl districts Nos.
21. 21 and 31. all situated in (irant Par
ish. LtI.. it :-nd thiey are hlier-by ROltnied
into ont' di-trirt to he known as Schhool
Slt'ttion Two Fh. it further ordained
itc. Thit all fttds ti-i ivetl frinm srinit-it
-, hi il t;\ -le -ti.n'. wihich m:y hrentf
,'r ti, h 1.1 and t itl,-red in the said
irtuiti-id dtutr et. shall he apprtioned
therein a r-i :nrg toi the hase-.sments of
ti. trign;inal territorial subItlivisions to
tich iorignin: --li livision fir use in the
rri" n'ti stubdivlsi,,n.
..i tion Thr.,e Hl it further notrllinel
it,. Thb- nil a rlt inant'+es or parts ttf ordi
ii(n c., cintrtr ry ti or in tonflkit wlth this
',-ln :tl ni' are hterhby ret,-aled. andt that
thii ordinan.-e ih:l1l go into effect imme
-liat tl\ uiwt n its a:ssa:tge.
Th 'anImou.liv ndteptied
The following recolution was offered by
E. A. W'all and seconded by N. S. Roberts
who lnoved its adoption:
Whereas. There has been a request
made by the property tax payers of °
School Districts Nos 21. 23, and 31. con- t
stituting grouped I)istrict 21-23-31, eli- t
gible to vote at such election, asking that i
a special election be ordered In and lot Y
said district, at which shall hN. submitted t
the following proposition, to wit:
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in School District 7
No. 21-2:3-:11, Grant Parish, La.. subject $
to state taxation. annually, for a period
of five years for general educational pur
poses. t
And. wherease, in the opinion of this I
board such special election is necessary V
and advisable,
lie It resolved by the Parish Board of it
School Directors of the Parish of Grant.
La.. as follows:
Section One. That a special election he s
and the same is hereby ordered to be p
held in School District No. 21-23-31.,
Grant Parish, La., on
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1916, .
at which shall be submitted the following
proposition, to wit:
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in School Dis
triet No. 21-23-31, Grant Parish. I~a.. sub
ject to state taxation, annually, for a pe
riod of five years for general educational
purposes.
Section Two. That the Secretary of b
this toard he and he is hereby instructed o
to ha.e prepared for use at this special h
election a sufficient number of ballots, on i
each of which shall be printed the propo- It
sition mentioned in section one of this a
resolution, and in the following form:
PROPOSITION
Proposition to levy a special tax YES p
of five mills on the dollar on all a
property subject to state taxa- a
tion in school district No. 21- a
23-31. Grant Parish, La., for a
period of five years, beginning NO
with the year 1916 and ending NO
with the year 1920. both years t
Inclusive, for general education
al purposes.
Taxableval ation . .......................
Signature of voter.. .....................
NOTICE TO VOTERS.
To vote in favor of the proposition sub- a
mitted on this ballot place a (X) mark in n
the square after the word "Yes", and to
vote against It place a similar mark in
the square after the word "No".
And the Secretary of this board be and
he is hereby instructed to have prepared
for use at said special election all the
necessary ballot boxes, tally sheets, lists
of voters, assessed valuation of property.
and compiled statement of voters in num
ber and amount.
Section Three. That the polling places I
for the said special election shall be at
Montgomery precinct and Verda precinct.
At Montgomery precinct Dan Drewett. J.
W. Bryant and Rolly Sellers are appoint
ed commissioners, and John I. McCain a
clerk of election to serve thereat. At
Verda precinct George Garrett, B. D.
Fletcher and J. W. Stanley are appointed I
commissioners and H. L. Brian clerk of
election to serve thereat.
The said election shall be conducted un
der the laws of the state applicable
thereto.
Section Four. The President of this t
hoard is hereby instructed to give notice
of the special election herein ordered, by
his proclamation to be published accord
ing to law; and in the said proclamation
lie shall announce that at eleven o'clock
a. m. on September 6, 1916, this tbard
will meet at the court house at Colfax.
Grant Parish. La.. and in open sesslon
proceed to open the ballot boxes, exam
ine and count the ballots in number and
amount, examine and canvass the returns
and declare the result of the election.
The above resolution was adopted unan
imously, all the members of the board
hereinhefore named voting in favor
thereof.
J. H. McNEELY.
President.
J. N. WARNER.
Secretary.
The following ordinance was introduced.
and being duly seconded, it was unani
nmously adopted: to wit:
AN ORDINANCE
Forming Christian Hope District No. 16
out of the present Christian Hope Dis
trict No. 16 and Tison District No. 17.
which said districts compose Ward
Five. and to distribute all funds de
rived from special school tax elections
?ln said consolidated districts according
to the territory embraced In the boun
daries of Ward 5. Grant Parish, La.,
Be it ordained by the Parish Board of
School Directors of the Parish of Grant.
La., in legal session convened.
Section One. That school districts Nos.
16 and 17. all situated in Ward 5, Grant
Parish, La.. be and they are hereby con
solidated Into one district to be known
as Christian Hope District No. 16, which
said district embraces the territory with
in the boundary lines of Ward 5, Grant
Parish, Louisiana.
Section Two. Be it further ordained.
etc., That all funds derived from special
school tax elections which may hereafter
he held and ordered in the said consol
idated districts Nos. 16 and 17 shall be
apportioned acording to the assessment of
said Ward Five, constituting Christian
Hope District No. 16. Grant Parish. La.
Section Three. He it further ordained.
etc. That all ordinances or parts of or
dinances contrary to or in conflict with
this ordinance are hereby repealed, and
that this ordinance shall go into effect
Immediately upon Its pasage.
IUnanimously adopted this 22d day of
July. 1916.
The following resolution was offered by
T. C. Lincecum and second ed by E. A.
Wall. who moved its adoption.
Whereas. there has been a request
made by the property tax payers of
Christian Hope District No 16. constitut
ing consolidated districts 16 and 17 and
embracing the territory comprising Ward
5, GOrant Parish. La., eligible to yote at
such election, asking that a special elec
4ton he ordered in and for said Christian
Hope D)istrct No. 16. at whivh shall tbe
submitted the following proposition, to
wit:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all prooerty In Christian
Hope School District No. 16. Grant Par
ish, Ia.. subject to state taxation, annu
ally, for a period of five years for gen
eral educational purposes.
And whereas, in the op nlon of this
hoard such special electiosl is necessary
and advisable.
Be it resolved by the Pariah Board of
Sclhool Directors of the Parish of Grant.
la.. as f,,llows:
Section One. That a special election he
Sand the same is hereby ordered to be
I held in Christian Hope District No. 16.
(;rant Parish. La.. on
TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 5, 1916.
At which shall he submitted the following
proposition, to wit:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of five mills on
tll,. doll:ar on all prorertv in Christian
Hlope District No. 16. Grant Parish. la..
.nuhblect to state taxation, annually, for a
period of five years for general educa
tional purposes.
Section Two. That the Secretary of
this board he and he is hereby instructed
I Ito have prepared for use at said special
election a sufficient number of hallonts.
on each of which shall be printed the
proposition. mentioned in section one of
Fthis reotution. and in the followrlaig form.
PROPOSITION
Proposition to levy a special YES
tax of five mills on the dollar
on all property subject to state
taxation in Christian Hope Dis
trict No. 16. Grant Parish, Lou
isiana, for a period of five F
years. beginning with the year NO
1916 and ending witn the year
1920. both years inclusive. for
general educational purlposes.
Taxable valuation... .......... ..........
signature of voter .................... .............
NOTICFE TO VOTERS .
To vote in favor of the proposition sub
Inttted on this ballot place a (X) mark in
the square after the word "Yes". and to
vote against it place a similar mark in
the square after the word "No".
And the Secretary be and he is hereby
instructed to have prepared for use at
said election all the necessary ballot
boxes, tally sheets, lists of voters, as
sessed valuation of property, and com
piled statement of voters in number and
amount.
Section Three. That the polling place
for the said special election shall be at
Tully's Store, in Georgetown, La., and W.
H. Westberry, P. M. Ussery and J. D.
McConathy are appointed commissioners
and J. L. Homes clerk of election to serve
thereat.
The said election shall be conducted
under the laws of the state apulicabbl
thereto.
Section Four. The President of this
toard is hereby instructed to give notice
of the special election herein ordered, by
his proclamation to b- published accord
ing to law; and in the said proclamation
he shall announce that at eleven o'clock
a. m. on September 6, 1916, this board
will meet at the court house at Colfax.
Grant ParisH. La., and in open session
proceed to open the ballot box, examine
and count the ballots in number and
amount, examine and canvass the returns. I
and declare the result of the election.
The above resolution was adopted
unanimously, all members of the board
hereinhefore named voting in favor
thereof.
J. H. McNEELY.
President.
J. N. WARNER.
Secretary.
The following ordinance was introduced
and bein7 duly seconded, it was unani
mously adopted; to wit:
AN ORDINANCE
To group districts -Nos. 12 and 26, all sit
uated in Grant Parish, La., and it
distribute all funds derived from specela
school tax elections in said grouped
districts according to the original ter
ritorial subdivisions heretofore existing
in accordance with the assessment ot
said district.
Be it ordained by the Parish Board of
School Directors of the Parish of Grant.
L.a.. in legal session convened:
Section One. That school districts Nos.
12 and 26, all sltupted in Grant Parish
La.. be and, they are hereby grouped int(
one district to be known as School Dis
trict 12-26.
Section Two. Be it further ordained
etc. That all funds derived from special
school tax elections which may hereaftel
he held and ordered in the said grouped
district shall be apportioned according ti
the assessments of the original territoria
subdivisions to such original subdivisior
for use in the original subdivision.
Section Three. Be it further ordained
etc. That all ordinances or parts of or
dinances contrary to or in conflict witl
this ordinance are hereby repealed, and
that this ordinance shall go into effect
immediately upon its passage.
Unanimously adopted.
- The following resolution was offered bs
E. A. Wall and seconded by N. S. Rob
erts, who moved its adoption.
Whereas, there has been a request
made by the property tax payers ol
school districts Nos. 12 and 26. constitut
ing grouped district 12-26, eligible to vott
at such election, asking that a spedcia
election be ordered in and for said dis
trict, at which shall be submitted the fol
lowing proposition, to wit:
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property in School Dis
trict No. 12-26, Grant Parish, La., sub
ject to state taxation, annually, for a pe
riod of five years for general educational
purposes.
And whereas. In the opinion of thit
board such special election ia necessary
and advisable,
Be it resolved by the Parish Board of
School Directors of the Parish of Grant
La., as follows:
Section One. That a special election be
and the same is hereby ordered to be
held in School District No. 12-26. Grant
Parish, La., on
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1916,
at which shall be submitted the following
proposition, to wit:
To levy a special tax of five mills on
the dollar on all property In School Dis
trict No. 12-26, Grant Parish, La., sub
ject to state taxation, annually, for a pe
riod of five years for general educational
purposes.
Section Two. That the Secretary of
this board he and he is hereby instructed
to have prepared for use at said special
election a sufficient number of ballots, on
each of which shall be printed the propo
sition mentiored in section one of this
resolution, and in the following form:
PROPOSITION
Proposition to levy a special YES
tax of five mills on the dollar
on all property subject to state
taxation in School District No.
12-26. Grant Parish. La.. for a
period of five years, beginning NO
with the year 1916 and ending
with the year 1!120. both years
inclusive. for general educational
purposes.
Taxable vaslatlion ............. ..............
Signature of voter ................... .... .....
S NOTICE TO VOTERS
To vote in favor of the proposition sub
mitted on this ballot place a (X) mark in
I the square after the word 'Yes", and to
vote against it place a similar mark In
thel square after the word "No".
And the Secretary of this board be and
he is hereby instructed to have prepared
for use at said special election all the
necessary ballot hoxes, tally sheets, lists
of voters, assessed valuation of property.
and compiled statement of voters in num
ber and amount
Section Three. That the polling place
for the said special election shall be at
Creed precinct, and J. H. Faircloth. Ern
est Newton and - - Creed are appoint
ed commissioners and WV. O. Hutchineon
clerk of election to serve thereat.
The said election shall be conducted
,rnder the laws of the state applicable
thereto.
Section Foutr. The President of
this board is hereby instructed to
give notice of the special elec
tion herein ordered. by his pro-lama
lion to be published according to law:
and in the said proclamation he shall an
n ounce that at eleven o'clock a. m., on
ieptemnter 6. |164. this board will meet at
the court house at Coifax. Grant Parish.
tLa.. and in openl session proceed to open
the ballot box. examine and count the
,allots in number and amount, examine
and canvass the returns and declare the
result of the election.
The above resolution was adopted unan
f imously.' all the members of the board
I hereinbefore named voting in favor
.1 thereof.
SJ. H. McNIEET,Y.
President
I J. N. WARNER.
Secretary.
. . _ .- , -
DRY PRONG MAINTENANCE TAX.
The following resolution was offered
>y N. S. Roberts and seconded by E. A.
Wall who moved its adoption.
Whereas. there has been a request
made by the property tax payers of Dry
Prong School District No. 11. Grant Par
ish. Ia.. eligible to vote at such election,
asking that a special election be ordered
in and for said Dry Prong School District
No. II. at which shall be submitted the
following proposition, to wit:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of ten mills os
the dollar on all property in Dry Prong
School District No. 11, Grant Parish. La..
subject to state taxation, annually, for a
period of two years for the purpose of
supporting and maintaining the schools
located in the said Dry Prong School
District No. 11.
And whereas, in the opinion of this
board such special election is necessary
and advisable.
Be it resolved by the Parish Board of
School Directors of the Parish of Great,
La.. as follows:
Section One. That a special election be
and the same is hereby ordered to be held
in Dry Prong School District No. 11.
Grant Parish, La., on
TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 6, 191.,
it which shall be submitted the following
proposition, to wit:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of ten mills on
the dollar on all property in Dry Prong
School District No. 11. Grant Parish, La.
subject to state taxation, annually, for a
period of two years for the purpose of
supporting and maintaining the schools
located in the said Dry Prong School Dis
trict No. 11.
Section Two. That the secretary of
this board be and he is hereby lnstructed
to have prepared for use at said special
slection a sufficient number of ballots,
on each of which shall be printed the
proposition mentioned in section oe eof
this resolution, and in the followI frm:
PROPOSITION
To levy a special tax of ten yg
mills on the dollar on all prop
erty in Dry Prong School Dis
trict No. 11, Grant Parish, La.,
subject to state taxation. annu
ally for a period of two years,
;eginning with the year 1911
and ending with the year 1118. NO
both years Inclusive, for the
purpose of supporting and main
'ainlng the schools located In
the said Dry Prong School Dis
rict No. 11.
Taxable valuation .................-................ . .....
ignat of Voter................... ................... -
NOTICE TO VOTERB
To vote In favor of the proposit grb-"
mitted on this ballot place a (X) mark i1
'he square after the word "Yes", sad is
vote against it place a similar mark iN
the square after the word "No".
And the Secretary be and he is hereby
nstructed to have prepared for use at
caid special election all the necessary al
tot boxes, tally sheets, lists of voters, as
sessed valuation of property. sad c0o
.iled statement of voters in number an
cmount.
Section Three. That the ollng ple
for the said special election shl be at
Dry Prong precinct, in the aid Dry
Prong School District No. II, and T. Jr
Walker, I. B. Sermons and Mike NHae8gi
tre appointed commissioners ad J.
Smith clerk of election to serve thereat.
The said election shall he casadtd
under the laws of the state ap1iebie
thereto.
Section Pour. The Presdent 0f tWl
board is hereby instructed to give 1so .
if the special election herein ordered by,
dits proclamation to tbe published atdr
ng to law; and In the said
ie shall announce that at ee els
%. inm.. on September 6. 191,. this b
will meet at the court house at
Grant Parish. .a, and in open as
oroceed to open the ballot box. exaine
mnd count the ballots in number ead
%mount, examine and canvass the letsn,
nid declare the result of the electis.
The above resolution was adopted ansr
imously, all the members of the board
hereinbefore named voting to vlav
thereof.
J. H. MeNULY.
Presidet.
J. N. WARNER.
Secretary.
DRY PRONG ROND IIUI.
ORDINANCE No. IL
N. S. oberts offered Ordinance Na
who moved its adoption, mduly NeM
by E. A. Wall and It being placed hist
the board by the President. J . Me
Neely. E. A. Wall. T. C. Linaeeue, N. S.
Roberts and M. E. Jackson voted 1a' the
adoption of the ordinace. says soe,
whereupon the chair announ~ed tl
adoption of the ordisance by theU
by unanimous vote.
Whereas, it is necessary that a 1mw
school building be built and equlpped at
Dry Prong, Louisiana. In Dry Prong
School District No. 11. and
Whereas, the citisens and proerr tat
payers of the said Dry Prong School
trict No. 11 have requested that tM
I school building be built and equipped.
a site be purchased, if necessary. ad n ,
I Whereas, it is necessary and dsab
for funds to be raised for said paraae
and.
-Ir
Whereas, it is the voluntary will of to
body to call the election herelnafter WV.
vided for, and
Whereas. Article No. 381 of the
tution of 1898 and 1913, and Act. No.
of the Legislature of 19t0. as amNaded
Act 218 of 1112, declare the school
of the parish to be the governong
ity through whtch said
District No. 11 may incur d
issue negotiable bonds for such
when so authorised at an eltto O t ip
held In the said Dry Prong School Ds
trlet No. 11. and
Whereas. tye assessed valuation 
said Dry Prong School District I
amounts to approximately one ,
and sixty thousand ($100.)0.0)
Iand tb- proposed indebtedaeas doeo set
exceed < • constitutional limit of tsa St
* cent of . assessed valuation, sad
Wherea the speeial tax necessary I
Sbe annuall. levied to extinguish the pr
d posed indebtedness will approxim
eight (8) mills, which will not exceed te
Sonostltutional limit per annum on tis -
. Ilar of the assessed valuation of the prop
erty of smid Dry Prong Schol Distrit
No. 11. now, therefore;
Section One. Be it ordalsed i the
. Board of School Directors of the o l
-of rant. Louisiana. in legal ksession e
vened. That an election shali he aiM
Shereby called to be held in the ai Dry
Prong District No. 11, in the Paridh of
d Grant. Louisiana. on
S TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 5, 1918,
at which election the majority of the
f property tax payers of the said Dry
0 Prong School District No. 11. in numaber
Sand amount. eligible to vote and votls&
shall determine the
PROPOSITION
Propgosition to Incur debt and ine
nbonds of the said Dry Prong SRebool Dia
t trict No. 11. in the Parish of Orat. tLa
i. to tbe amount of ten thousand (1.MS.O,
n dollars. to run for a period of asire
imately ten (1i) years, bearing hlteet
Sat the rate of five per cent pet annum,
epayable annuaUv. the funds thus derived
to be used for the
PURPOOK
d Purpose of building and equipplag
r school building at Dry Prong. Louisina.
in the said Dry Prog School Dtrict
No. 11.
Section Two. Be It further ordanled,
Ccsnssd as lasS pae
:+·- . . r
