Our Next Issue Will Contain Another Story of Roman Catholic Lawless Assault on Freedom of Speech and Assembly
3
EYTP A BoId Attempt to Wreck
A I Jli "The Menace Plant After
We Had Gone to Press on Present Edition
SEE LAST PAGE OF THIS ISSUE!
SGS833c
t -- Thl Is Number 276 5
1HE
.Present Day Papal Decrees and Papal Deeds
Ex-Cathedra Utterances of Pope Leo XIII Place Pontiff Above Secular Government Direct
Cause for Roman Catholic Disregard for Democratic Constitutional Guarantees
Duty of Voters Defined by the Pope Sweeping Condemnation
of Popular Sovereignty Equal Treatment of Churches Op
posed, Freedom of Speech and Press Condemned, the
Principle of Union of Church and State Upheld; Secret of
Roman Hostility
bit to bM to) ii mm4 ffwt.
Hr aea tfc aaaiaear attecaar mS
fcalba Iraa tba fmmlxat at Um arfc
Ml mi aU O., Utter 4r nuttwMi
taat ntmJ k Ira W at,
lit rvfttMHM far faiMilJ literal 4
Mite Mi Ua OK4.AMC LAW mt hi
Oa tal MP alas I0 fn4 tlx
taiaat (1m aeara UlNlriUMK W
tin mlwH tmr Mr fearral numittN
m4 IIm rtriiu af Uw ai4ut ctiurrt a
aaajana af Um aaal . Tkra
Mfra Br aiaafc4 kf Ja, Na
tkwtifl llawlr ar4 Um nMlilMM l
trariarva Him mtmi at Ik reaa t af
Ik rra fraaa 0tn LtaiM. WUHM M
vtll arM. rawr Ik ! WW
laat lkl kH aafraM4 Um Aawf
traa amah ftiac tkr ettU wr.
Tfc ttl lUrma W Ik aaaae ami
Ik IllaailaaUaf aa4 tratoal nasft f
aarb lrackm la laaalrla mlit fv
Ik maw likrrty tkl I Ik araar Ma
f aar Jincilt grrrirl nntlliui
a taaarual ka4 UIUaUa kir
J4n wlik Um liiliriml im4
r Ik rwiHMbMl nwlaltaa II. J.
IU. IM ta aUa Ik mm.
AU tha IMUIIM k Um flMh M-
ar fraai Um alMaac ut Laa XIII. ar
taaaa fma TW Craal UrnlMl LaMara
af Lm Kill." al
hf at Caealaal frw. Tk aaa tra
aftar aark aaatailaa taalrat kr ka
Ik Ml MlaM UM aaataUaaa aaaaar.
I
La
N the resolutions Introduced
by Congressman C. A. Lind
bergh, at the initigaliou of
the Free Press Defense
League, it is claimed that the pope
ia a sovereign the head of the pa
pal system of government that lis
teaching when ho apeaka as pastor
of the flock, are tecognited as bind
ing on loyal Catholics. It u fur
thermore claimed that these tenh
ii:gs aiitogonize fundamental prin
ciple of our liberal democracy and
popular safeguard of free institu
tions. As bearing directly on the fun
damentals involved we last week
showed that since tha vatiran coun
cil, the tT-ralhtdra utterances of
the popes of Rome are binding upon
all loval Catholic, and must be ac
cepted as the word of God Himself.
In the following paper we shall
ree just what the papacy means
when it head epeaks of "the will
of God," and what he means by
such terms as "the church.' "the
universal church," "and Christian
aocicty" as given in tho authorized
utterances of Leo XIII, and we
ahall also nee what are the teachings
of this greatest of all the nineteenth
century popes in regard to the duty
of voters who belong to the Roman
church. Here, also, we shall note
the hostility of the modern papacy
to any sovereignty that does not
rccogniae the pope and the Roman
Catholic church, as well as its an
tagonism to the distinguishing
glories of our liberal democracy.
Word In Regard To Leo XHI
This greateFt of the latter day
popes was at the time of his eleva
tion to the papal chair in 1878,
supposed to be a man of great liber
ality of thought. He was intellect
ually one of the most brilliant men
who have filled the papal chair.
His long pontificate extending into
1903 occurred in a time of strew
and strain to the Roman hierarchy.
It wm vitally irorortant for him to
aid in the world-wide attempt t-
?uiet the fears the well grounded
ears of the Protectant or liberal
nations, nhilt Rome ua marshal'
ling htr rtrrngth for a renewed
tlrvggl againut the fundamental
principles of the Prolettant Eeur
via lion and the democratic era.
Iieo's liberalism was seeming,
rather than real. Ue held firmly to
the reactionary Roman Catholic
dogmas and planted them through
out his various encyclicals so that
the faithful should not run any ri-k
of being mislead, but he carefully
surrounded them with verbal flora,
born of a rich and tropical imagin
ation, and well calculated to divert
the attention of Protectant readers
from the real significance of his title-ranees.
He was a master in phrase jug
gling and word wuardly, still he
was unwilling to renounce the un
democratic, arrogant and time-hon-fited
assumption of the papacy ON
'THE POINTS WHICH DKMO-
CR ATIC Al LI R Kit A L TH IN K
KltS INSIST AUK VITAL TO
PRKK INSTITI TIONS. To IN
DIVIDUAL RIGHTS AND TO
JSC I K N T I F 1 C PKOG R KSS.
I Papal Assumption Vs. Democracy
We now o'tne face to face with
pupal assumption and tiaeliings
whit li are not only boldly in opo
fition to our theory of drtuorrnrii
on. 7ii reiiioiM lihertti. HUT
to oca vo'ysTiri'iiox it-
SELF.
Protectant readers of Leo's Kn
(uHrn! and of the great mat of
Jesuitical literature of re-ent dec
ades are being conntautly milled by
the Roman Catholic use of tcrnm,
the meaning of which is one thing
to Catholics and entirely another
thing to Protectants. Thus for ex
ample, whenever a pope of Rome
epeaks of the ehurch, or of the uni
versal church, he means the Human
church and no other. When he
Ktaks of Christian c U-ty or the
Christian state, he merely means a
society or a state dominated by, or
subservient to the Roman pontiff.
When he speak of the wish of God.
or the will of God, or a state ruled
without reference to God, he merely
means a state in which the wish of
the Roman pontiff ai tho repret-ont-ative
of God, i either considered or
ignored as the enw may be.
Just here the reader may well
say that these are very important
and serious claims but they call for
substantiation. lie is right, and in
proof of the exact truth of these
statements we will let Leo XIII
speak for himself. Here are some
of the ex-cathedra, and therefore, to
every loyal Roman Catholic, infal
lible and irruXoriuablo utterances of
this pope.
W hold upon thii earth, the place
of God Almighty. rge 304.
Th supreme tmrher in tho rhurrh ii
the Soman pontiff, union of mind there
fore, require, together with a perfect
arenrd in tho one faith, complete tub
minion and ollici)T to tba will of tha
church and to tha Human xttiff at TO
COD HIMSEU'.-Pau- 13.
Here we Cud exactly what the
pope means when he refers to GimI's i
will, and since he arrogantly claims
to Ftand in the pluce of God Al
mighty on earth and to be "the su
preme teacher in the church," v. ho
must be obeyed as "God Himself,"
we cau well understand his impa
tience in the presence of popular
sovereignty which eauwd him to
make the following, to Catholics in
fallible, statement:
The Almighty alone ran commit
power to a man over bus fellow, men.
I'age 1S5.
And then that there might be no
mistake as to the right of the pope
to over lordship in civil govern
ment, we have the following state
ment coining from the one who as
sumes to speak for God Himself.
Cher this might multituiie Cod bat !
Uimelf et rulrra with power to govern; t
and Ue hat nxltrj that one should be tht
head ef all ad the rhirf and unerring '
tfcchrr of truth to tckowy He hat arrn '
the keti of the kingdom of heaven. 1
I'af 112.
In the light of the above utter- i
ance the following words of this
pope are highly signinVant.
Now it i evident that he who clinin
to tho UiwtriDM of the church M an in
fallilild nil", ripld hia a'arnt to tvtry-
thi!t tfc r'n- tcocht. Page 1U3.
And again no una can, however,
without risk to faith fneter acr doubt
as to the church alone having been in
vented with auch power of governing
oula aa to eiclude altogether tha civil
authority. rage. 9fl.
The church of Christ, as will be
noted in the above quotations as in
all papal characterizationa of 'the
church is the one that recognizes the
pope as the sovereign pontiff. In
the following quotation, with this
fact in mind, the reader will see
whit little room there would be for
any other Christian church or re
ligion faith, if Amcriia became
doiiiinantly Roman Catholic.
The . hur.-h ef CUiat ia tk tnt and
fVr bf irf and guardian
wtoU. I'ne 124.
When the pe speak of religion
or of the true religion, he means
the Roman Catholic church and
et some Protectant tsire zeiilou
tti c tie Roiiie' intoliTiinee than
Lis Catholn' neighbor, should claim
lh.it the Catholir like the Protea
tur.ts incline to regard the various
churches a hramhes of the one
great stein of Christian religion
the jMipe mak-H the po-ition of the
Roman ihureh on this subject very
plain, when he says:
Constitution'! Unlawful Teaching
The ehurch indeed devma it t'N-I-AW
FIX to place tha variout forma
of IHvine woribip oa tha same footing
aa the TRUE KKMUION. Page 127.
Here it will be noted that the
true religion, in the eyes of the "in
fallible jKjie." is the Roman Catholic
rhtmh, and our constitution, by
placing the great Protestant bodies
on the same footing as the Roman
chureh. has done something unlaw
Jul in the eye? of the. pontiff. The
question naturally aric if the con
stitution is thus regarded unlawful
by the head of the Roman church
whose utterances are "irreforinaldc"
in the eyes of all true Catholic,!
fan they be trpectrd to revere the
Constitution, or indeed, regard it as
a nUhing other than on unlawful
doivmenlf And do we not here
find the true rcaon for the present
warfare beii.g waged by Roman
Catholics against our constitutional
guarantees of freedom of religious
oiscuion, freedom of press, and
freedom of public assembly, and
finally in the following quotations
we 84 just who are 'Christians, in
the eyes of the pope; and that the
universal church ia the Roman
church while heretics are character
ized as criminals.
To the) i.'lo authority of tbn auprema
pontiff dor it pertain to puld.th a new
rewiiua of the rymtia. at also to do
err nil uirer matter that confer tho
tmeraal fhnrrh.
la dr6nicg the limits of obedience
oacd to tho paatort t f auult, but mot
of all to tha authority of the Komaa
ntitf it must not be atippoaaj that it ia
only to lv yielded ia relation to dogmas
of wl.it a the oUtinala denial eaa But t
i!iiome. from the (KIME OK
IIK.hKSY. Nay further, it ia not enough
a neercly and firmly to aaent to tha doc
trine hirh, though not defined br any
uletnn pronouncement of tha eliurra, are
by her propoaed to bvlief as divinely re
vealrd, in her common and nniteraal
teaching, and hh tha Vatican eouncil
(rlarnt are to t heU e. ith Catholic
and Divine faith. But t' 'trrwe m
be rrclontJ amungn tht dutirj of l'hr
tkoia, (wit thru allow tkrmfhtl to bf
rultd and directed bu th authority and
the leadcrhp vf bi"p: and abort mil
p re pototie See. Pago 104.
Hence, it i tha ehurch and not the
ftate that ta to be man ' guide to heaven.
It ia to the church thai t)d haa awigned
the charge of erring to, and Irvlatxng
for all that concern re'i'ioa; of teach
ing all nation; ef epieodtna th Chwi.
turn frith at rxdelu a po$tble; in short,
of adminitteriag freely and without
hindrance, in aconrdance rtra her or
judgment, all mattsrs that fall within
iti competence.
Now this authority perfect ia it eel f,
and plainly meant t le unfetter i ao
long aaaailed by a philxi-ophy that truok
lea to tha ttate, the church haa never
eeaaed to claim for hv ref and orx nly to
eirrciaa Thi me authority the
holy father of the church were al
a careful to mair.'iiiii It weighty
argument, according k 'tecasinn a'o',
and the Roman pvntilft hare nerer
thtunk from defending tt 'ilk unbend
in it tonitancy. Nav mora, prince and
all inrfitcd with p-mer ta ml hav
thcn.sehes approved f.t, in theory alike
and in practice. It cannot tie called ia
queation that in the making of treatiea,
m the transaction tf ltine iniittera,
in the funding and receiving anilaa
dut, and in the ii.trichange of nth.r
kind of official dealing, the have bHn
out to treat the rh'irch a with a su
preme and legitimate power. page
113 114.
What This Teaching Means
In the alove quotations we find
(1) that the pope holds that he
eland on earth in the place of God
Almighty, and ttyt complete sub.
minion is due to "him, as to God
Himself. (2) That the Almighty
alone can commit power to a man
over his fellow nit'n. and that Cod
has set rulers with jiower to govern,
(Continued on Page 2, Column 2)
Murderous Assault on Christian Minister Followed by False
Charges and Arrest. In Which Knights of Columbus Judge
Gains Evil Eminence Guardians of Liberty Champion Pas
tor's Cause and He Is Vindicated Roman Catholic Criminal
Lawlessness Exposed
tf!
ERE is a tragic story of pro
found human interest which
ahould touch the finer heart
chords of every Christian
man and woman in the land. A
story that should do far more than
bring th bluh of fhante t the
brow of every patriot a atory that
should a run- to instant action, eveu
as the peal of an alami In 11 at mid
night, all cttiens who love our flag
for vhaf it reprmrnts. and who
have the fear of trod in their heart.
It is a story that might well have
happened in Jerusalem in the cl.iys
when St. Steven was stoned to
death, by the reason blinded and
hate inspired minions of the Jewish
hierarchy. A story that would well
match the midnight raids on the
Srimitive Christians by the pagan
omatis whose baser passious had
been fed by the priesthood of the
old order, and finally, thia story
would fit well into the frame of
darkest Ilubsia, when in recent
years th blood lust of the children
of the Russian hierarchy has twn
centered on the helpless Hebrews.
Unhappily for America, this
brutal and inhuman crime did not
occur under the shadow of the cross
of Calvary tao thousand years ago,
or within cannon sliot of tho Coli
seum, nor yet in lh land of the
car. No! It hnp ncd under the
'hadow of one of our greatest Amer
ican universities in the Empire
Mute of New York, n Ju'y .'hi,
the eve of our anniversary of tho
signing of the Declaration of Inde
pendence. The ono com fort in a f j t con
nected with the shameful d-d is
that the criminals were all subjects
of the papal sovereign, and not le
lievers in. of upholders of our free
and liberal democratic system of
government.
The victim was one of those
simple hearted, sincere, earnest
Christian ministers, who from the
day of Tentecost have consecrated
38B8B
CANDIDATES MUST FACE THE ISSUE
Br CILPERT O. NATIONS, Vira-Pmaukat of th Fr. Pre Dc'ena UafiM.
(2 BUM Btlldir-r. SS B Strart N. W. Wahlnton. D. C.
country which allegiance to any foreign po
tentate bars under oar constitution.
In the face of Ibis tremendous issue of
law and fact, elusive and time-serving poli
ticians must yield their seats in congress to
citizens of courage and conviction. The pres
ent congress, if it ahould refuse to order the
investigation which the Lindbergh resolution
demands, must give place to a congress that
will order the investigation. Every candidate
for senator or representative in congress must
commit himself in favor of the investigation
or incur th determined opposition of all good
citlxens.
The investigation will be made. If the pope
This resolution offers to submit to impartial t is a sovereign all American people should'
and exhaustive investigation and decision the know it. If he is not a sovereign, those who
question whether the pope of Rome is a sover-' oppose Roman Catholio political aggressions
eign potentate within the meaning of our on the theory that he is such sovereign should
constitution and naturalisation laws. If he is . cease their opposition. The Free Press Defense
such potentate by virtue of his position as League and millions of patriotic American
head of the Soman Catholio church, then ' citisens demand to know the truth. Their
every member of that church is bound to this . demaud is both reasonable and righteous and
sovereign by ties of political allegiance iden-' must be granted. If the allegations of the
tical in spirit and substance with the ties Free Press Defense League are not true Ro-
The Resolution (H. J. Res. 264) introduced
in CongTess July 13, 1918, by Representative
Charles A. Lindbergh of Minnesota raises the
most vital and comprehensive issue that has
confronted the American people since the
Civil war. This resolution, which is based on
a memorial prepared by the Free Press De
fense League, asks for the appointment of a
joint committee of the Senate and House of "
Representatives of the United States to in
vestigate and determine the civil status of
the Sovereign Pontiff of the Roman Catholio
church and of all Roman Catholics as bis
political subjects.
which bind to other sovereigns their subjects
and so preclude them from American citiien
ahip. The issue thus raised is dear and vital. If
the pope is a sovereign in the light of con-.
stitutional and international law, then every (
man Catholics ahould welcome the oppor
tunity to prove before an impartial tribunal
the falsity of those allegations. But if the
allegations are true their truth should be
established and all parties concerned should
abide the consequences.
Let the investigation be impartial and ex-
Roman Catholic is confronted with the alter
native of severing his allegiance to the pope , haustive. Elect men to congress who favor it
or forfeiting all claims to dtisenship in this) LIT US TURN CN THE LIGHT.
all of life i hoicort gifts to the
service of liod, and the advance
ment of what they conceived to be
the eternal truth.
Ueually thia tireleMi gospel min
ister had distributed bis trae's in
the evening, but the rain prevented
him. so late at ni'lit he set out
urged by the passion for ervii in
the cause of ru'htiousne!s. lie was
harming no one. h'it merely silent
ly, peacefully, laufiilly going from
home to home distributing little
tracts that he imagiued were not
unlike the leaves from the "tree of
life," which are for "the healing of
the nations." Suddenly and with-j
out warning while thus engsged in
the labor of love, he was murder
ously assaulted by three strong men
aided and abetted by three women.
all loyal nbjects of tKs pope of
Rome, all representatives in act as
veil as faith ef that monarchic, in
tolerant depotism tt hich from be
fore the ('aun of the. Protectant
Reformation has uarred against
freedom of conscience, speech, rrrrt
and aseembhj. These sil products,
of the Roman Catholic parochia'l
training later aided and abetted by
a Knignt of Columbus judge gave
a further startling illustration of
how utterly alien in spirit and a.',
to our free democracy are the nh iils
:ind the fruits of the papal syj'em.
Characters In the Drama
The followii.e are the lejilstiti
repreeertetives of lirht and dark
nes in . latest Roman Catho!i:
crime against American citizenship
in the present struggle between
democracy aud despotism, America
and lom
tt-r. MVton Worth I( t.harbe, a Chris
tian DiiuiMer, an earnest, aiocere anU
faithful I'rracher of the Ouajt'l.
Omul (.'roM fry, a Kuilit cf I'olmnbu
ami citv jinlife, alios net ion leave no
iloi.lt aa to hi whole aoutl klle;iauco
to the pa' l aovereiKii.
Three on of the Roman church, who
criminally awaullixl the Christian minis
ter. It '.'r. that i hey mistook the
minister for a eituen who h-t ti
tnl.iito'l I'Rtriotir. literature, r-howiutf how
Home ware acainst freedom of religion
! diaouMtiou, free press, free asttniUjr anii
f re n hool.
Three female, ttalou dnnihler of
tha Soman church, who vied with their
three eriminal eo rellRmnist in lirutallv
anil miirilerons'.y WoiiuliDg the Jcfcnae
less Christian minister, an. I who after
want fuitber displayed their religion
aval, in becoming panic to promoting
the fale chari; acninst the ' '0,i.
Gnardumt of Liberty, a patriotic non
aectarian oritaniiation pledej to tiphoM
j the fundamental democracy of our OK
. uAXIC LAW, front the gnreion of
monurchial deiotisme of Old World
hierarchies and other system of rule.
The nrmticr of this orgaoitatioa
I promptly bailed out the victim of Ro
man t ntholle hatred, ami in eourt iney
were able to uncover and prove the in
fammi action of the faithful subject
of the pope, thin aecurinf the acquittal
and vindication of the minitr.
The Story of the Crime
Here is the story of the crime?.
The facta are given by a careful,
conscientious, acholarlv citiren or
the Empire State, who has long been
trained to weigh conflicting claims
and consider material facts and
legal evidence. A citizen whose
love for our flag is more than a
vocal pretense, and whose loyalty is
wo emplif ehatn.
July 3rd, in the year of our Lord.
One Thousand Nine Hundred and
Sixteen, in the little city of Ithaca,
within the ahadow of the Cornell
! University, Reverend Milton Worth
PeLhorbe. a minister or the Gospel,
was attacked by six Roman Cath
olics, three large males and three
females. ITe was brutally seized
around the neck, poked in the faeej
thrown to the ground and then
kicked and beaten to a rum plod,
torn and bleeding mass, until he
despaired of his life. The fury of
the females made them more fiend
ish than the males.
A Roman Catholio Judge
Then these faithful representa
tives of the papal system dragged
him, half liMc!-. to the home of
one Daniel Crow lev. a KXKillT
F COLUMBUS, the city judge.
There the miiiir.tr attempted to ob
tain the name, and identity of his
assailants but he was promptly told
to shut up and informed that 'he
would prt, "the limit." in the niorn
mg, bc-ide threats were made that
he would be hung. Tha judge, us
ing Agnes (irilliu. one of the as
sailants, framed 4 complaint charg
ing the reverend:
"Wiih rendering kimaelf 4 disorderly
peron, in that h was drunk, intoxicated
and duotderlp in pubis place in tha
etu af Ithaca, and bf eiofmu rnnd fmfc
tnons eondurt therein, in prorltna, tres
pausag around deponent's horn and
that the earn him eon upon tha parch
of hr ratidtnea after stopping and look
ing to ta if anynns rat obetrvmg."
This charge deprived the accused
of a trial by jury and gave the city
judge exclusive jurisdiction. Agues
neither read nor heard the corn
plaint, but signed it and swore tr
the Blessed Virgin aud a host of
saints that it was true (the Roman
Catho'ie brand of truth).
Then the Roman Catholic ju'ige,
with bis brethren stirroaiidirjg,
male the poor minister, hearing hi
cross of wounded and bleeding
flefh, trudge painfully on foot to
the police station nearly a milo
away, still threatening him wffli
death by hanging, and threw; him
into a prison cell like a dog to await
the threatened "limit."
On the road to the police station,
the judge, (fully dressed at 2:30
A. M.) probably auspcting more
church literature was being distrib
uted, unlay fulhi slopped two other
citizen, sennhrd one, and threat'
rned both vith the terror of his Ro
man Catholic court. Rut when
some of them awoke to the fact that
(hey had brutally beaten a minister
of the (io-ipd of Christ, uho tias
simply distributing his church lit
eratvre early in the morning &
route it had rained the night be
f,.r-AXI THAT HE nAD
BACKIXtl, they commenced to
crawfish. The Roman Catholte
clerk of the city court at first rs
fused to let the complaint, filed ftva
days lefore, be inspected. When it
tas demanded, although filed and at
tart of the record, the judge- dreut
his pen throuah the part vhich
charged "drunkeness" and intoxica
tion." The minicter, like many of those
working for the salvation of man
kind, was poor in worldly goods.
ITe has a little charge in Elmira,
forty miles away, and another in
Ithaca, and hv working at other
labor in the davtime he ekes out a
meager living for his family con
sisting of a faithful wife and three
beautiful babes.
The Guardians of Liberty, though
not directly interested or concerned
in the minister's affairs, recognized
this infamous outrage as a deadly
assault on one of the verv corner
stones of our constitutional democ
racy, and in the name of free gov
ernment and human rights, took ut
the cae and promptly furnished,
bail.
Two of the local papers snt
servient to the Roman Catholics
with the evident purpose of preju
dicing the minister's case, published
before, the trial, the false statement
to the effect that: he came before
Agnes stoop at 210 Meadow Street
where she was sleeping, at about
2:30 A. M., made a noise which
frightened her, tried to escape, she
clnng to him, demanding an ex-
Elanation. The noise awakened her
rother, Jim, who did some pom
meling. Readers of that powerful new
novel "The Rlack Prophet" which
bv the war, is one of the greatest
I (Coatinuad oa Pag 3, Cotoma 3)
A
