W PV' "" '
The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, AUGUST 5, 19 1G
NUMBER 44
"" fJWXBTpyT-iiFiwjfi- '
v "
EWL
4t
K-
THE BATTLE OF
?
A Light Vote Was
the State, But
Fought
There Were Some Surprises, But As Is
Usually the Case the' Best Men
Were the Winners
Well, the boys had an election Tues
day of course? the Democratic boys
.are meant, otherwise It would be re-rf-lerred
to as a primary And they put
up a ticket that would not only be hard
to beat but cannot be beat. They
picked out winners as that Is the
only class with which the Democrat
ic boys traffic as every one of them
will be elected next November.
Somehow or other no one knows
why the lightest vote ever polled In
Buchanan county was the net result
of all efforts and as a residue there
are many candidates who feel that
had a full vote come out the result
might have be"en different. No mat
ter what they think or thought there
are results, and these self-same re
suits are what has provided the win
ners for next November.
The great Interest in St. Joseph
was in the governor and the sheriff
races. They overshadowed all others,
and it was Impossible for any one who
did not have a personal Interest in
one of these races to get a decent
CONGRESSMAN CHARLES
hearing In Buchanan county and
with all of this muss It did not bring
out even a fair vote. The vote In this
county was Just about one-half of
what It should hare been.
The state races outBide of the gov
ernorship dwindled down to the small
est of proportions In fact, there was
practically no contests here. Gardner,
Roach and Atkinson were tho only
candidates who cut any sort a swath
here, and it seems that they ran about
me same way an over wie state. race oy a suDsjantiai plurality. The
These Are Nominated other Democratic nominees for Bu-
Tho unofficial returns, but which chanan county are Thomas 11. Allen
are regarded as conclusive, BhowstKat for circuit, judge ot Division No. 1
Fred D. Gardner of St. Louis is noml- William H. Utz for Judge of the clr
nated, for governor; Wallace Crossley cult court Division No. 3; Ed Swartz
of Warns sburg for lieutenant gover- for representative In the First dlstrct;
nor; J, Kelly Pool for secretary of Frank J. Staedtler, representative Sec
state; Frank McAllister of Paris for ond district; Ben F. Stuart, represent-
attorney general; George Miuaiekamp
of Hawks Point for treasurer; John
I. Gordon of Jefferson City for audi-
tor; Arcn .m. woouson of m. Joseph judge rlrst district; William Bub.Jtho Democratic national convention Democrats Wrote It Into Law jslon that they had never been sincere I "I and my four sons," who wore go-
lr,"P,mme 1UdGr D,lvls!on N0, 1; cy JU(lKe Second district; Oscar meant to Senator William Joel Stono1 Genuine progressives who followed In their progressive professions, at- ing to volunteer so fast are now seek
rred Williams of Joplln for supremo IX McDanlels, prosecuting attorney; of Missouri. Stono was chairman 0! Roosevelt In 1912, not because ho was cording to Edgar C. Snyder, chairman ng Jobs as major-generals whose
Judge Division No. 2; Ewlng C. Bland Otto Theisen. sheriff; John M. Craw-' tho resolutions committee. U nonular idol, but because thev be- of the Progressive nartv in the state duties these days Is to direct the fight-
1 .. ... . .
for Judgo of the Kansas City court of
appeals, and Davis Biggs of St. Louis
for Judge of the St. Louis court ot aP-
viB'
Each and every one of these noml-
nees has the full confidence of the
BJLL0T5
WS
Polled All Over
the Workers
Hard
Democratic voters of the state of Mis
souri, and will be elected in Novem
ber. Booher a Winner
There was a great deal of specula
tion and Interest over the race for con
gressman In this district. It was all
the more exciting from the fact that
the present incumbent, Charles F.
Booher, stayed on his Job at Washing
ton, while his opponents, Hon. James
H. Hull of Platte City, B. It. Martin
of this city, and Robert I. Young, who
resides'south of this city on one of the
finest stock raising farms In the West,
opposed him and did it strenuously.
The returns show that Mr. Booher,
while sticking to his post of duty In
Washington, attending to the duties
for which his constituents had elected
him, won out through the efforts of
his friends, he having carried Atchi
son, Holt, Andrew and Nodaway
counties; these counties and Buchan
an and Platte counties giving him a
total of 5,404; Martin, 5,180; and
James H. Hull of Platte, 3,962 votes,
BOOHER
and which gives Mr. Booher a plural
ity of 224 over his closest opponent,
B. R. Martin. Martin carried Buchan
an county and Hull carried Platte.
The County Winners
The race among the county candl
dates was exceedingly fierce as re-;
garding the sheriff's office, for which
Otto Theisen and Tom Moore fought
a battle equal to that of Verdun, but
more decisive for Theisen won the
atlve Third district, and Jack D. Rob-i
inson. representative in tho Fourth t
district; Marvin Kirkman, county
... . -. .
ford, assessor; William II. Frans,'
treasurer; Ray L. Carglll. county high-
way engineer; Miss Mary A. Williams,
J1"01"3 aaminisirator, ur. torest
Thomas, coroner, and Walter S.
ten as constable ot Washington town -
ship.
In the race for United States sena
tor, James A. Heed, the present Incum
bent, ran all over his opponent, Mar
tin. The Republican Winners
Of course the poor deluded Repub
licans had to hold a primary on the
same day and date an empty per
formance but necessary to keep the
party together and they nominated
for the slaughter in November: Judge
Henry Umm, of Sedalla, who will get
what Is coming to him when the battle
of ballots is fought. There was so
little Interest taken In the other state
nominees up to the hour of publica
tion that no one could find out who
they were. .
In Buchanan county, however, It
was possible to discover that Dr.
Jacob Gclgcr, who had no opposition,
was nominated for congress; Kalph
Grler for Judge of the circuit court
Division No. lj John S. Boyer for
Judge of the circuit court Division No.
3; representative First district,
Charles R. Dubois; Second district, El
bert H. Loyd; William Leiblg, Judge
of the county court Second district;
Lawrence Bothwell, prosecuting attor
ney; A. E. Isaacson, sheriff; Henry C
Maxwell, assessor; C. L. Bermond,
treasurer; D. E. Neibel, county high
way engineer; Dr. George Roy Stev
enson, coroner, and David H. Hatfield,
constable Washington township.
No ono Is particularly distressed
over these nominations.
THOSE UNEQUAL RIGHTS
Why Women Should Not Ask
More of Those Desired
Privileges
for
The editor of the Henry County
Democrat at Clinton, Mo., must have
been busily waving a palm leaf fan
when he Indited this:
"Women demand equal rights with
men. What does a woman have to
wear during the oppressive dog days?
"Ono low-necked, sleeveless, mos
quito netting gown.
"One pair silk stockings.
"One pair slippers.
"That's all.
"What does a man wear during tho
said dog days?
"One coat.
"One vest.
"One pair trousers.
"One shirt with starched collar.
"One pair shoes.
"One union suit.
"One hat.
"One pair suspenders.
"One necktie.
"If he takes off his coat In a hot
restaurant he Is thrown out. If he
takes his tight collar off, he's a rube,
If ho wore his trousers slit up the
knee, he would be sent to the Insane
asylum..
"Equal rights? Huh!"
POLITICAL PROPHETS
Read the Returns and You Will Be
lleve That They Are Weather
"Prophets"
St. Joseph has two political proph
ets, B. G. Voorhees and E. E. Thomp
son, whose predictions are considered
of sufficient importance to be pub
lished in the St. Louis papers. Voor
hees predicts that Charles D. Morris
has no chance for the Republican
nomination for aspvernor, that 90 per
cent of the Buchanan county vote
would bo about evenly divided be-
tween Lamm and Morris and 10 per
cent would go (b Swanger, and that
Lamm would have a majority over
both Morris and Swanger in nearly all
counties in the Fourth district.
Thompson predicts that James A.
Houchln will poll more votes In
northwest Missouri than all the other
Democratic candidates for governor.
j The News-Press
I a glance at the returns will show
that these most estimable centlemen
belong to the weather "prophet"
class.
STONE'S HARD WORK
Seventy Hours of Real Labor Put In
by Missouri's Seventy.Year.
Old Senator
Seventy hours without rest fnr n
man nearly 70 years old. was whatJoseph wil1 bo weU rePresented
tho task of drafting the Blatform of .
With tho work over and tho nlat-1
form finally approved, then tho
cran politician started for his room,
He was helped up the corridor by a
Pat-(newspaper man, who noticed his ex-
, haustion and who led him to bis room
at the Planters.
"I am going to sleep for eighteen
hours," he said, smiling weakly.
On the way to his room he had com
mented on the fact that he had had no
time for meals during tho period he
was engaged In arranging tho plat
form. When one of his friends asked
earlier in the day how ho bad man
aged to sustain himself, he replied:
"Oh, I got a sandwich not and then."
Stone has been a prominent figure
at all recent Democratic assemblies
of note since 189G when he was the
principal platform writer of the party,
and, In many respects, was Bryan's
choice in arranging details of such
matters.
His unique personality and his char
acteristic appearance has changed
comparatively little since then, In
splteof tho fact his hair la now gray.
"I can remember him twenty years
ago and also when he was governor
of Missouri," said one of the Jefferson
City contingent, "and if I bad never
seen him since I would recognize
him."
"I can do hntter than that." renlled
another of the veteran aspect. "He
wn an ..lprtnr In thn 1S7fi ramnaltm
was an elector in the 1876 campaign
when Tilden was running."
The necullar contour of the sena-
tor's fare is not easily forgotten. His
hair is snowy and the lines are more
deeply graved in his face. But there
Is no loosening of the facial muscles,
no droop to the eyelids, no change In
the carriage, except what would be
expected in the advance of years. The
well-kaown lock of hair that lops over
his forehead is thinner.
His work on the recent Democratic
platform has been remarkable. He
went straight from the convention,
after hours of labor, attending to de-
tails, to parlor six at the Planters.
Few could have- stood the terrific
grind and the hours of work entalted.
REALLY SOME "GUESS"
Here Is the first guess at the
primary resuu in me rounn .mis-
souri congressional district: An-
drew county, 800 majority for
Booher; Atchison, Nodaway and
H'H counties, about an even
split between Booher, Martin
arid Hull; Platte county, 2,000
majority for Hull; Buchanan
county, Booher and Martin neck
and neck, but Hull receiving
many votes. News-Press.
Andrew county went 769 for
Booher over Martin; Nodaway
gave Booher 581 over Martin and
Hull only received 152 votes.
Atchison gave Booher 507 votes
and only 31 votes for both of
his opponents; Holt gave Booher
369 votes and the total of both
his opponents was but 341;
Platte county gave Hull but
1,456 votes and Martin carried
Buchanan by 524 over both of his
opponents.
It really was1 "some guess" and
about as reliable as some of the
other "guesses" pulled off by the
N.p
"
'
ST. JOSEPH FORTY YEARS AGO
Lake Contrary, near St. Joseph,
where a private picnic was being held,
was the scene of a shocking catas-' When the meeting of the state com- that they will work and vote for Wil
trophe yesterday. A man named Gross mlttee was held in Newark, July 15, son and that it is their purpose to at
was rowing a boat about with his little J. A. H. Hopkins, chairman, led the .tend the conference which Is to be
daughter and four other young girls
In the skiff, when suddenly the boat resolution was submitted by Wm. E.
capsized and all were thrown Into the Conkllng, of Blalrstown, reciting that
water, and despite heroic efforts on the delegates to tho national conven
the part of Gross all the girls were tlon at Chicago had exceeded their
drowned. Gross, seized with cramps,
was sinking with exhaustion when of another party. The resolution . heading the Wilson Progressive move
rescued by persons who had heard the further said: ment In California, the fnllnwlnc I
screams. Kansas City Times.
THE OLD MAYSVILLE
CHAUTAUQUA
The fame of tho old Maysvllle Chau
tauqua Is country; wide, but lots of tho '
b'oys like to call it "Col. 'Paf Hilt's
show," for It was largely through'
"Pat's" progresslveness and push that
it was founded, and through the same
qualities that It is kept up and "Pat"
is still its president. The twenty-first
annual session will convene at Mays-
vlllo next Sunday. August 13. with
the greatest array of talent ever
known for that famous ground. St.!
.
iinvnd in fh rtPmnnrt mnrtn w jhoir'nf WnahimMnn in mi? Mr Snv,w
vet-!nnriv ninifnrm win ,io waii tn rr
.. . ,. . ..-.w j ...w.,
the first pronouncement of their pollti-'
cal faith. The Democrats have at-
ready made most of it into law.
Ian Standard.
MOOSE DRIFT TO
WILSON SURPRISING
The Obstinate Creatures Are
Not Herding as Their Lead
ers Would Wish
THE GREAT DELIVERY
PROVED A FAILURE
The Long Horned Animals Resent the
Attempt of Their Leaders to Toll
Them Into the Elephant Corral and
the Jersey State Committee Repud-,need
lates the Bill of Sale.
Efforts to
whip the Progressives
lnt0 Hne for Hughes, according to the
Chicago program, have failed
The Stirring scenes at the meeting
of tho Progressive state c
NeW Jersey, in Newark. W
committee of
hen the Bull
-"uure "ut" "fc'' auempis 01
ce"aln 'eaaers 10 pieuge me party in
that stat? t0 the Republican ticket.
" """ '- -
not goln& t0 submlt t0 the destruction
ot thelr Principles nor to the barter
ot tn"lr votes-
a vote 0l 7 t0 5 the state com-
mlttee of Ncw Jerse' Progressives re-
Pudiatcd the action of the national
bmly at Chicago, and will not bind
uselt t0 lts ac"ons.
The managers of the president's
campaign feel that they have every
reason for Ratification with respect
t0 the nuI1 Moose and independent
vote- Hundreds of letters and com-
munlcatlons have been received at the
national committee headquarters, the
headquarters of the Woodrow Wilson
Inrianomlont lt.ai.no nnH ot th ivhfto
house from Progressives, and Repub-
ncang as welli who deciare their ln.
tention to vote this year for Wilson.
...ne man who has j.etlt ... olIt of
war."
Should Support President
Edcar C Snvder rhairman nf tho
Progressive party In the state of
Washington, has written a flaming de -
nUnciation of the Chicago coalition
an(j savs: i am supporting Piesl -
$ent Wilson and feel that all Pro-
Kresslves should support him."
0le Hanson, one' of the foremost
Progressives of the West, who was a
candidate for the United States senate
In the gtate ot Washington, and polled
53052 votes. Is sunnortlmr President
Wilson and vainly challenging Sena-
tor Poindexter to debate Issues.
From an partg of the countrv tnere
are crles ot consternation from Pro-
gressives over the manipulation of
thelr "leaders." Their bitter protests
at the treatment of their party at Chi-
cag0 indicate clearly that they will
give their supPort to President Wilson
rather y)an t0 Mr, Hughes.
New Je
The Progressive party of New Jer-
sey, as represented by Its state com-
mlttee, refused to indorse the candl-
dacy of Charles E. Hughes, although
a strong effort had been put forth by
Everett Colby, a pioneer Progressive
of the state, to swing the committee
that way.
fight against endorsing Mr. Hughes. A
authority by endorsing the candidate
"Resolved, by, the New Jersey state
committee. That the Progressive party
of New Jersey will not be bound by
the action of the national committee
( lHjA..t. r ti..i tu
,u """"6 "" u.uai.-).
This resolution was carried by a'
vote of 7 to 5.
Chairman Hopkins read to the com-
"""" ""' "c "" m.u i" v,u.
Kevelt recalling that the colone
"VPT,.7 , . Eugene SmUh company, is a member
? II1?gb" m'8h,t1 er h" V Lf T'ot thc cutive committee, and is
b an,ther oW bnck" J1"3 Iet' out In the state actively organizing
fr aUSed much anlusement araon . Progressives to work for Mr. Wilson,
J,, -T?,1! , A , , The movement Is being financed in
8e,f-Sult"',n Go k Mw CnUfornla b- loea, contrlbutions."
I X- Ul I'lUlCBSMfa IU U UUCK IU HUM
, Republican party now would be self-1
Htiiltifienttnn nnri xvnni.i v. nn n.imi..
, WMt JJ l ltltllt-
. ,. .-..1 ..w-a .
) RimnnrinP Mr wiunn hJn,,au i,
tho president, "has given us a proi
gresslve leadership and Jias donfi.shouter like Roosevelt would either
Mi-'much during the last three years to have to enlist as a private or stay at
make effective the essential demands home. Monroe County Appeal.
of the Progressive party platform."
Mr. Snyder insists that If Mr. Root e
velt was sincere four years ago when
he said the bosses and the special In
terests had brought the Republican
party to a shameful end, then It can
not be expected that the Progressives
' can go back now without a clear show
ing that the old party has been puri
fied and has rekindled within It "that
fire of lofty endeavor."
"The control of Invisible govern
ment over the machine of the Republi
can party has never been relaxed, but
has been strengthened and con
firmed," declared Mr. Snyder.
"Wherever the Republican party has
1 been dominant during the last four
years its record of public acts has
been one of retrogression and not of
progress. No better example of this
be sought than the showing of
)0ur own Republican majority In the
' last legislature of this state. The flag
rantly
reactionary legislation then
'passed would be throttling our liberty
as individual voters and our home
rule powers as self-respecting and
governing communities, If we had not
fortunately possessed the power of
I compelling these vicious measures to
be submitted to a vote of the people.
"The Progressive voters are first
of all independent voters. That is
why they left the old party and that
is why no man and no newspaper or
gan and no machine can now deliver
their vote. They think for themselves
and they will deliver their own vote.
That is why I feel confident that the
bulk of the Progressive vote will in
reality be cast for Woodrow Wilson."
Hanson Challenges Poindexter
Ole Hanson, the Progressive leader
in the state of Washington, is very
sincere In his belief that this is not a
time for partisan politics or attacks
upon the president.
"As American citizens, as Progres
sives, it Is our duty at this time to
silence the harsh criticisms and un
thinking partisan prejudices and stand
by our president," said Mr. Hanson
in a recent interview.
Mr. Hanson ran for the United
States senatorshlp in Washington in
1914 and polled 83,282 votes. He is
anxious to engage Senator Miles Poln
dexter ot tlle same state, ln a Joint
j debatc- Mr. Poindexter was elected
t0 the senate as a Progressive, but
'now sajs he ls a Republican. The
f"owInS Is a telegram sent by Mr.
Hanson to the Democratic national
committee:
"We can carry Washington. Can
ou shame Senator Poindexter into
, debating with me the subject, "Shall
Wilson Be Returned?" Poindexter is
afraid, and, like Hughes, is a trimmer.
Both have endorsed the American
flag, but refuse to get down to funda
mentals. Have challenged Poindex
ter repeatedly, but to no avail."
California Progressives for Wilson
Isadore Jacobs, a prominent busi
ness man who Is leading the Indepen
dent movement in California, has sent
a communication to the Woodrow Wil
son Independent league, 2S0 Madison
avenue, New York, In which he says
that the non-partisan movement Is just
as strong in the northern part of Cal
ifornia as In the southern end of the
state.
"Each day," said Mr. Jacobs, "we
are getting letters from old time Re
publicans and Progressives asserting
held in San Francisco, August 5, and v
whoop it up in true western style."
Mr. Jacobs says the majority of the
Progressives In California will be for
President Wilson. As an indication of
' the type of business men who are
quoted from Mr. Jacobs' message:
A pcrmanent Progressive organize
tlon hag been effected Jn San p,,,.,,.
co. Its officers are:
"President. Joseph S. Thompson.
aMpnt of th. Pflrifln v0otr,n rnm.
pany of San Francsco; secretary. Mr.
L. A. Ireland, of the Mysell-Rollins
company. Eugene Smith, president of
ithe Monarch 01, company, and of the
'.
All Want to Be Major Generals
ing from a secure position twenty
miles behind the flrlug line. It we
were the president a professional war-
