THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 121.
HAKKE. VERMONT, SATURDAY, AUGUST 5, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
CROWN PRINCE
IS BLOCKED
TREATY SIGNED
IN NEW YORK
United SUti U to Acquire Threa It
lands from Den
nvarlc
Washington, Auff. 8. Act ing Secre
Failed to Win Rack Thiau- W u,u y-r.uy ti..t the
... , , . treaty by which the tinted Mates U to
lilUIlt IIUIA aitu UCO" ipurvnsse me immtii n efc jiuim-i in-ni
Denmark for 25.000,0(10 was signed at
Xew York yesterday morning by Sccre
tary liiliig and Minister Coii.Untio
Urun.
The treaty provides for the transfer to
the I lilted Mates of twee Islands, M.
TkiHi.i K IVnlv And St .liilm. which
MUdl VlULlliiN 1 have been the subject of negotiation be-
tween Ui United Mates and Denmark
fur many years.
It la understood the admlnlntratlon
will ak for ratification by the Senate
before the end of the present session
and while there may be aome objection
to the price, no really serious opposition
it expected.
Secretary Ianing, who has been upend
ing hit vacation at WatertJwn, X. Y.,
went to Xew York to meet Minister
Urun.
perate Efforts
BOMBARDMENT
i The Battle Lasted All Night,
Says Paris Official
. Report
POLICEMAN -
IN EACH CAR
Which Was Operated in the
Strike-Ridden Tarts
of New York
Signed in New York.
Xew York, Aug. 5. The treaty for
. i ... . . .-. . i . ..li
me purcuase oy ma iniieu mains "MJuctora and
wanisn vesi innia wamu was signm
in duplicate in Mr Lansings suite venter
The battle lasted day. The American secretary came here
from Watcrtown, X. l., and Mr. Ilrun
Paris, Aug. 5. All German attack on
French positions last night were repulsed,
i says the French official statement, and
the Germans sustained heavy losses A
bombardment of the moat violent charac
ter took place over the entire Thiau
i mont-FIeury sector.
' .11 -,:i,
ti, r..rm,. m.d ,.n,..eHful ef- f"" ' ummer home in Bar Harbor,
A4a 4ti ilitimAiit aava i ririvu the I
v'v. t Thimn,k uwk There were no formailties in connection
i o.. . .omnf. in Vlenrv. with the signing.
the situation is without appreciable I . Brur. said his copy 'of the treaty
t t m-.i,..tinn i. nuiet. he would immediately forward to his
The ba'ttle races north of Verdun with government for ratification by the Pan
somethinff of its old fury. The defend- '"h mgsdag,
ers. after beating off repeated counter at
tacks by the Germans, again took the MOTOR BANDITS.
offensive and once more recaptured me
greater part of Fleury and the celebnat- Detroit Concern Robbed of $45,000 Yes
ed Thiaumont works, me success at terday Afternoon,
Thiaumont is looked upon as moro im
portant as an evidence of the energy of Detroit, Mich., Aug. 5. Three automo-
the French infantry than as a military bile bandit held up pay clerks enter
achievement. The work is so swept by ing the plant of the Burroughs Adding
the artillery of both sides as to be of Machine company here yesterday after-
little use. to the possessors. noon and after shooting one of tlio
French officers point to the fact that clerks, .raped with bugs said to h&VBcon
the efforts of the Germans are now re- tained $4.,000.
stricted to the Fleury-Thiaumont section Employes of the Burroughs plant in
as evidence of the crowing weakness of (another automobile cave chase and a
the invaders' forces in the Meuse region, runnning fight ensued down Second ave
London, Aug. 5. Verdun, almost quies- nue. One of the robtiers was reported
cent during the Anglo-French offensive in wounded. The bandits were armed with
the Somme region, ha again becomo the rifles.
storm center on the western battlerront.
G,000 STREET CAR MEN
WENT OUT TO-DAY
Several Companies Are Af
fected by the Movement
The French forces have taken the offen
sive on the right bank of the Meuse and
now hold the Thiaumont work and the
greater part of the village of Fleury, ac
cording to Paris.
The mam German second line system
1025 PARALYSIS VICTIMS
Have Died in New York Since Epidemic
Started.
Xew York. Aus. 5. More than 1.000
. . . i . i . . ii j ,
on a ironi oi two tnousana yaras norm children of this city have died of infan
of Pozicres on the Somme front haa been ti paralysis and nearly 5,000 have been
capiurea oy me rvruisu, mo r uu stricken by the disease since the out
break of the epidemic. The health do
announces
The Thiaumont work, already the
. scene of many desperate combats, was
twice in French hands during 2 hours
on Friday. The forces of the German
crown prince fought tenaciously, driving
the French from the work once but log
ing it again. German counter attacks
were of no avail, eays Paris, and the
work remained in the possession of the
French.
Fleury, which changed hands Thursday
after the French had succeeded in taking
it, is again almost entirely occupied by
the French. Fierce fighting still contin
ues in and around the village. German
unwounded prisoners taken in the Ver
dun fighting number 400.
On the Somme front, in northern
France, thero has been little infantry
. activity, both the British and French offl
cial communications failing to report any
move on the part of their armies. Ion
don aays the Germans bombarded the
section southwest of Fozierea and also
the southern portion of the Mameti
wood.
On Eastern Battle Front.
Desperate counter attacks by the Ger
mans in the region of the Stokhod river,
east of Koyel, have resulted in the re
tirement of the Russian forces which had
seized the village of Rurka-Miryanskaia.
The fact that the village is only 19 miles
from Kovel, the Russian objective on
this part of the Volhynian front, prob:
ably accounts for the intensity of the
fighting there.
The Russian general Sakharoff'a troops
continue to advance south of Brody and
toward Lemberg. Petrogrtid reports the
capture of 1,300 Autro-Gcrmans in a
'"hot attack" on the line of the Sereth
and Graberki rivers.
A squadron of British naval aeroplanes
has attacked with bombs German mili
tary establishments in the vicinity of
Ghent, Belgium. London says consider-.
able damage was done by the dropping
of two tons of bombs. Unofficial report
received in Amsterdam apparently con
farm this claim,
The Russian troops have crossed the
river Sereth south of Brody and have
consolidated the captured positions, the
war ollice announces.
partment's bulletin yesterday shows that
the plague still continues to gain head
way. During the 24 hours ended at 10 a,
in. yesterday 45 children died of the dis
ease in the five boroughs of Xew York
City and 175 new cases, the second larg
est number in a single day, was report
ed.
SWEDISH STEAMER
SUNK BY SUBMARINE
Stockholm Reports That the Ship Com
merce Was Carrying No
Contraband.
Stockholm, Aug. 5. The Swedish
steamer Commerce, sunk off Soederhamn
by a German submarine ship, was carry
ing no contraband. The Swedish govern
ment will file a protest in Berlin against
this and other recent attacks on Swedish
shipping in the Baltic.
ATTACKED BY TURKS.
British Positions Near Port Said Are
Involved.
' London, Aug. 5. British positions near
Romam, ea.t of Tort Said, are being at
tacked by 1,40 Turks, according to an
official statement by the war office. The
Turks attacking along a front of seven
miles have been repulsed.
Converted.
"Do you know Pinks?"
"Know him? Why only the other
night I found I was a distant connection
of his."
"How rlse."
"Oh, ISO miW or sol He calVd to
from Bet ton. j Lao-w Iu''.e Cow.
BIG TENNIS ENTRY.
For Annual Tournament of Western Ten
nis Association.
Chicago, Aug. 5. The best field ever
entered in a tournament of the Western
Tennis association -will begin play to
day in the twenty-ninth annual meet on
the courts of the Owentsia club, Lake
Forest. From coast to coast and from
Xbrth to South, well known stars of
the new game gathered here to-day for
the tournament. Play for the the cham
pionships in men's singles, now held by
George M. Church of Princeton, who will
be here to defend his title, for the west
ern doubles, and singles and doubles for
the women's titles are to begin in the
morning.
with the conclusion of the western
events, will come the tournament among
the eight teams of sectional doubles
champions for the privilege of playing
for the national championships with W.
M. Johnston and C. J. Griffin of Califor
nia, in the challenge round at Forest
Hills, Long Island. Practically all the
entrants among the doubles teams will
compete in the singles. Eight sections
will be represented in the doubles, the
western and northwestern titles being
yet undecided. G. M. Church and Willis
Davis will represent the East; Con
rad E. Doyle and Breck, the middle At
lantic section; Nat Emerson and Lew
Hardy the South; George Wright and
Clarence Hogue, the Southwest; Jack
Cannon and Al Lindauer, the Missouri
valley and Maurice E. McLaughlin, the
Pacific coast.
Xew York, Aug. 8. Strike were in ef
feet to-day on virtually every surface
car line in the boroughs of Manhattan,
Queens and Bronx, involving 6,000 con
motormen and affecting
2,000,000 persons who daily use these
lines. Only a few cars, guarded by po
licemen, moved. The elevated and sub
way lines, which were not affected by
the strike, were thronged by persons who
were unable to use the surface lines.
The threat was made that the ttrike
would eventually be extended to those
systems.
Preparations were made by the large
financial and business houses to convey
their employes from their homes to the
offices In automobiles. Many occupied
rooms for the night near the subway or
elevated lines in order to reach their
work on time.
The street railway line involved in
elude the Xew York Railways company,
the feecond avenue line, the Third avenue
line and two lines in the Bronx.
Some minor disorders attended the dec
laration of the strike, and a few arrests
were made of striker who attempted to
interfere with the operation of cars.
At 10 o clock tins morning officials' of
the Xew York Railways company said
the service on all their lines was almost
normal. This was apparent, for on only
a few lines was there any delay in op
era ting the cars. Many workers on their
way downtown were unaware that a
strike was in progress.
FORM ASS0CIA-
TI0N FOR ANTI
TUBERCULOSIS
THREE EVENTS ON CARD.
At Grand Circuit Meet On Last Day at
Kalamazoo.
Kalamazoo, Mich., Aug. 6. The local
grand circuit, meeting ended yesterday
with three events on the cord. The 2:06
trot, which originally had some of the
fastest horses in the light liarness world
entered, was called off because of insuf
ficient starters.
The feature of the day's racing was
the Michigan Railway company's $2,000
purse raced on the three-heat system
and for trotters which never won more
than $2,000 nor had a race record faster
than 2:14'4. The winner of the race
was the horse which the final summary
showed had won the most monev, and
when the bookkeeping was completed it
was tound the honor had fallen to Lind
sey, driven by Lon McDonald, with StitK)
to his credit. Bnsca was second with
i550 and Grand Chimes third with $3b0.
The best time for the race was 2: 08 '4.
alentina uncovered two good pacers
in Goldie C. and Miss Rejected. He won
the 2:08 pace with the former and the
2:19 pace with the latter. Both events
were won in three straight heats.
NOMINATION PAPERS FILED
Greene, Scott and Bailey Are the First
in Vermont
Essex Junction, Aug. 6. Congressman
Greene, State Treasurer Scott and Secre
tary of State Bailey are the first to file
heir nomination papers, having complied
with the law in regard to the number of
sutures to -4 tt-tiocs,
FOR GUARDSMEN RELIEF.
. .Gov. Gates Outlined Plan Agreed On at
Conference.
'Burlington, Aug. 5. The appointment
of a committee of 12, one member from
each city or town furnishing a company
of men for the Vermont Xational Guard,
for the purpose of supervtmng the relief
work for the families of ,the Vermont
guardsmen now on the border, was an
nounced last evening by Governor
Charles W. Gates of Franklin. This
decision, which precludes at least, for
the present any possibility of an extra
session of the Btate legislature, was ar
rived at by the governor after a con
ference yesterday at Montpelier with sev
eral of the state officials, including the
lieuteunant governor, the secretary of
state, the state auditor, state treasurer,
the attorney general, Judge J. E. Weeks
of Middlesex, speaker of the House of
Representatives, and Stanley C. Wilson
of Chelsea, chairman of the ways and
means committee of the House of Rep
rosentatives. The membership of the
committee has been practically decided
upon by the governor, but will notybe
made publlo until all of the appointees
have accepted. The committee will meet
early next week at Montpelier and for
mulate more defienite plans for then
work.
Several of the officials who attended
the conference displayed a strong senti
ment for the calling of an extra ses
sion to take care of the needs of the
guardsmen's families and the governor
himself stated that if it had not been
for the vacillating course of the national
government an extra session would have
been called. Owing, however, to the fed
eralizing of the Xational Guard and the
fact that a bill carrying two million dol
lars for the relief of the guardsmen's
families Is now before Congress and praC'
tically certain of passage, the appoint
ment of the committee was deemed the
more satisfactory method of caring for
this work. Colonel Ira L. Reeves, com
mander of the Vermont troops, had for
warded to the conference a list of the
guardsmen whose families were in dis
tress because of their presence at the bor
der. There were about 100 such cases
before the conference and it was esti
mated that the cost of the relief work
would not exceed $1,000.
Col. Reeves was notified by telegraph
of the action of the governor who felt
that the troops should know at once that
the state appreciates their service and
is willing to do her share towards help
ing her patriotic sons. Hitherto cases
where guardsmen's families have needed
aid have been cared for by local organiza
tions in the town or city where the fam
ily might live, but this method has been
found extremely unsatisfactory. Each
member of the committee will investi
gate any case touching a guardsmen's
family, where the husband has enlisted
in the company from tliat town, and
will distribute the aid. The committee
will be made up of one member from
Rutland, St. Albans, St. Johnsbury, Bel
lows Falls, Xorthfield, Winooski, Mont
pelier, Brattleboro, Springfield, and Xew
port and two members from Burlington,
where C and M companies are located.
An additional member may be named
from Xorthfield, where the first squadron
of the 1st cavalry was originally located.
before its members were transferred to
the Infantry.
Thomas Magner of Burlington was Elect
ed President at Meeting Held ia
Rutland Last Evening.
Rutland, Aug. 5. At a meeting here
last evening with Dr. H. D. llolton of
Brattleboro presiding, the Vermont Asso
ciation for Prevntion of Tuberculosis
was organized. Twenty persons attended
the meeting. The asaocution U designed
to disseminate knowledge concerning the
causes and treatment of the disease, in
vestigate it prevalence in the state and
secure proper legislation for relief.
Dr. J. II. Blodgett of Bellows Falls, a
member of the ermont tuberculosi
commission, said that the plan of the
commission the coining year was to at.lt
the legislature for suflicirnt approprta
tion to establish a tuberculosis ward in
every hospital in Vermont.
1 he following onlcers were elected
President, Thomas Magner, Burlington
honorary vice presidents, liovernor
Cliarles W. Gates, Frank C. Partridge,
Proctor; vice presidents, Dr. llolton, Mrs
R. E. imith, Vhite River Junction, Rev,
A. H. Bradford, Rutland 1 secretary, II
W. Slocum, Burlington; treasurer, A. W.
Hill, Burlington; assistant secretary, Dr.
Urace . Nierwood, M. Albans. The ex
eeutive committee consists of Dr. Blod
gett, It M. Bradley, Brattleboro; F. H.
Brooks, St. Johnsbury; Dr. Charles h.
averly, Rutland; M. D. Chittenden, Bur
lington; Dr. C. F. Dalton, Burlington;
'olonel C. S. Forbes, St. Albans; Dr.
. S. (;oodall, Burlington; Dr. F. T. Kid-
er, Woodstock; iu r.unly 1). Proctor,
Toctor; Mrs. Anna Hawks lttiam, Ben-
ington; Dr. L. J. Rogers, l'ittiford;
Mrs. H. II. Stone, Burlington.
There were 64 directors elected, the
urlington members being President Guy
Potter Benton, Thomas Magner, I homas
Bradl.-e, M. I). Chittenden, Dr. Dalton,
Bishop Hall, II. S. Howard, Dr. II. A.
Udd, Mrs. W. S. Phelps, II. W. Slocum,
J. L. Southwi.k, Mrs. B. II. Stone, Dr.
H. C. Tinkham.
MISSING GIRL'S
BODY FOUND
Remains Located in
Uhe River
MOTORCYCLIST DEAD
AFTER COLLISION
IN VIOLENT EMBRACE.
A Ford and a Street Car Cams to Crips
On Main Street
A service car of the Ford persuasion
owned by the Vermont Tel. &. Tel. Co.
and operated by one of the company's
employes, Stanton lturguas, was partial
Mi Evplvn K ParUnrr1' " d'ntolishnd this morning by contact
xuiss ieiyn i acKara sL ith . gimU,,M)lllll, wa.im.gton street
car in front of.the C. V. Avirill block
Young Burgess was about to wheel the
car in the opposite direction from where
11. was siuiioneii in ironi 01 1 lie com
pany's supply station in the Jackson
lilink when the steering apparatus
jammed and left the driver in a serious
predicament, as the street car in chargs
SHE DISAPPEARED
LAST WEDNESDAY of Molormn 1)('nni Sweeney and Con
ductor William Perry was bowling along
rry was bowling along
toward mm
It was said that the street car motor
man saw the automobile on the track
and niadii effort to stop his car but
failed, the fender bumping into the Ford
vehicle, l he driver of the machine re
tuiued his seat, but one wheel sagged
quickly to the ground and a second fore
wheel began to wobble dangerously. The
inudguurd was jammed and the head-
licrht were shjitfrft Iff a, cm-fat-in,
Brockton, Mass., Aug. 5. The body of the remains of the Ford, the driver or-
Miss Evelyn E. Packard of this city was dered it to the Kennedy shop for re
found in the Town river in West Bridge- Prs,
water to-day.
Went Out in Canoe Alone
Later in Day Canoe
Was Found
Miss Packard hired a
canoe last Wednesday and started out
I. .no T .In. ... Vw. A.. 4 V. .......... ....I
: : - . . Less Than Five Days Remain Till More
HALF OF TAXES IN.
found floating right side up. Searching
parties dragged the river and hunted the
woods and marshes for two dsys; and
Costs are Added.
With les than five days to elapse in
uhifh assraAmnnts for 101ft ttiav Iia m.f
last night a net was stretched across the at thfi ni(.e of the city treasurer, less
stream, and to-day the body was found than one-half of the tax budget has been
lodged against it. paid, although attaches at city hall are
MUs Packard was 27 years of age and T . . T T" ,tne PrlvlU'?9
was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John "' my,"F 18 T'1 ""VB wn no " ore
D. Packard of 142 Belmont street. m,M ,n,nm ,ormer J " ll,n
Af.. . .v. ,;..,..;., ,. ...i:.i wieir annual account, indeed, ir any
salt ABiiiiumii'ii, llz lliniH ca I CA- If v
aniiner declared death due to accidental 18 I1" nave een no more
SENTENCED
TO LIFE TERM
Otis Williams Dtested His
Innocence K .he Mur
der :? ircre
SPOKE ir JW TONES
T WAS CALM
Mrs. Anna Felch, Jointly In
dicted, Was Not Ad
mitted to Bail
drow ning.
CHAMPION VS. EX-CHAMPION.
Archie Barnes Ran Into Automobile at
Brattleboro Last Evening and
Received Fracture of
the SkulL
Brattleboro, Aug. 5. Archie Barnes,
who came here a month ago from Shel
burns Falls to work for Commissioner
David T. Perry, was fatally injured last
evening when his motorcycle collided
head-on with an automobile owned and
driven by Dr. L. I). Ritchie. Barnes
turned from Birge street into Canal
street just as the automobile reached the
junction and the machines came togeth
er. Barnes died of a fractured skull at
midnight. He was about 25 years old
and leaves a wife and two children
here.
Between Them Lies the Vermont State
Golf Title for 1916.
Rutland, Aug. 5. The Vermont state
golf championship lies between Fritr B.
ennings of Bennington, former state
hainpion, and Y. A. Barber, jr., of Man
hester, the present holder of the title.
Thcv started their match this morning
on the Rutland Country club links.
rapidly than in the average year, albeit
the treasurer and his assistants have
not been over buRy in making out re
ceipts. The treasurers office has been
open every evening this week and the
same rule will obtain up to and includ
ing Thursday evening, Aug. 10.
It is noted that more than one-half of
the taxes usually come in during the last
'two or three days when payments may
be made without giving the constable
the bonus that is his by rights after the
time limit expires. This year with a
grand list of $2 and a rat of $2.40,
Another interest insr contest will be around 51."n,(Ml is to be collected. Most
that of the second IB between F. Crocker f those who have heavy property taxes
of Manchester and W. H. Johnston of to W usually report about the first of
Barre. These two men have won every the month, the jioll taxpayers making
match they have played in the tourney much of the business in the last five
and in the qualifying round, Crocker days.
made (Hi and Johnston lu. In the third
NEW VERMONT ASSOCIATIONS.
ITALIAN BLACKLIST NEXT.
Government About to Forbid Its People
from Doing Business.
Rome (via Paris), Aug. 5. The Italian
government, according to The Messag-
gero, is about to publish a decree forbid
ding all Italians, including those living
abroad, from doing business with cations
in alliance with enemies of ItaJr. Agree
ments made in spite of the prohibition, it
is stated, will be considered void, and the
makers wul be fusi&hed.
Stevens Warner Co., and Vermont Lime
Product Co. of Burlington.
Articles of association were filled to
day with the secretary of state by the
Stevens arner Co. Inc., of Burlington
organized to deal in motor vehicles and
accessories. The company has capital
stock of $10,000, divided into 100 shares
and the incorpators are Frank Warner of
V ergennt-s and John J. Stevens and Ken
neth C. Hughes of Burlington.
The Vermont Lime Product Co., Inc., o
Burlnigton has filed articles, having cap
ital stock of $5,000 at $50 a share, being
incorporated to manufacture agricultura
lime for fertilizer. The subscribers are
J. V. Hill, William II. Hill and Max L.
Powell, all of Burlington.
Mr. and Mrs. Leon MacCall with their
two sons, Leon jr., and Richard, visited
friends in the city this morning while
en route from their home in East Alburg
to Claremont, X". H., Where they will
visit friends over the week end.
Miss Frieda Lascor, who has been vis
iting friends on South Main street, left
this morning for her home m oodsvule,
X. H.
An automobile said to have been op
erated by Harry C. Fisher of this city
went over a bank near Jones Bros.' plant
on the Xorth Barre road last night and
before the damage had been partly re
paired, X'clson's truck was summoned to
remove the vehicle from the ditch, Xo
one was in the car but the driver, who
escaped injury, although one of the front
springs of the machine was ruined. As
soon as the accident occurred the number
plates were removed and nwny motorists
returning to Barre from the band concert
at the capital were left to speculate on
the ownership of the ditched auto. A
bank nearly ten feet high skirts the
road where the accident occurred, but
he car had not reached the steepest sec
tion of the declivity when it left the
road.
Clayton C. Spencer, a 1916 graulnte
of Tufts college, who has been passing
several weeks in Groton, is at his horns
on Currier street, having been summoned
here by the illness and death of his
mother. Mrs. Maynard F. Spencer.
Machinery that is to be used in Barre
for the manufacture of spaghetti ar
rived in the city yeterday and was
transferred from the C. V. freight yards
to the down town Bolster block, so called,
where it is to be installed. A number of
varieties of spaghetti are to be manufac
tured in the establishment as soon as the
proprietor has completed the equipment.
Mr. snd Mrs. E. (. Holmes and Mrs.;
Ellen M. Holmes of Eastern avenue are j
passing a few days in ramp at Joe's pond
in West Danville. They are to be joined
to-morrow by Misses Blanche and Flor
ence Russell.
Mr. and Mrs. John Magnaghi, who
were married in Westerly, R. I., a fort
night ago, have returned to Bui-re from
their wedding trip and are making their
home in the Emory bouse, so called, at
the corner of Wsshington street and
Highland avenue.
In", George Worthington will match with
G. T. Murray, both of Bennington.
In the semi-finals held yesterday aft
ernoon, liarber heat C. r. Clark of .Man
chester in a closely matched game by 2
up, 1 to go. In the drive to the third
hole on the second round, both men
placed the ball within two yards of the j
LONG IN ILL HEALTH
Mrs. Emma C. Spencer Died Last Evening
at Her Home.
Mrs. Emma C. Spencer, wife of May
nard F. Spencer of . 41 Currier street,
na3ed awav at her home last eveninir at
hole, the plays through the entire match ho o'clock, death following a Ions neriod
v . ; ' - rt 1. ,;..!. ... - . . - c I
ueing very nose. .iam masing iarocr 0f declining health. Mrs. Spencer's con
play his best. Clark lost the game on a Jifion had been failing for the past two
poor drive from the eighth tee into the yPars. Besides her husband, she leaves
rough and a long drive out of bounds her son, Clayton C. Spencer of Barre,
X al a V A 1. 11 , 1 I . . " .
irum ine sevenia lee, win on inc seconu , wa8 recently graduated from Tufts
round. I college, and one brother, Eugene E. Cree
in me morning matcnes, l'ercv Jen- 0f piainfieU
mngs and J-ritz Jennings played a re- xhe a0CORsed was bom Emma Cree in
markanie game, tne latter winning with piainfield Sept. 6. 1871. Her marringe to
1 up. In the 18 holes, Percy made 80 and Urr. Spencer took place in her native
run iu. m. r.. m. i onu ui AUHanu town Aug. 10, 1802. For 15 years the
UtfUIltl V t lllM lUPL JUS Jttl4..ll 111 bill! lUOril
ing with C. S. Clark, the "latter having 3
up and 1 to go. J. A. Merrill fell to the
mighty strokes of W. II. Johnston, the
latter winning with 4 up and 3 to go.
George Morse of the local club, who
lost yesterday to Jay Gilmer of Benning
ton stands an excellent chance of win-
family resided in Williamstown and
moved to Barre about five year ago.
Mrs. Cree was a crrarter member of Re
kebah lodge, Xo. 50, in Willinmstown and
always retained an active interest '"n the
fraternity. She was an adherent of the
Methodist church.
Funeral services will be held at the
1 . t - . 1 . 1 ' r. . i r- . I
, a 8 . i J r. ' house Monday afternoon at 1 o'clock,
J t """" ' "" Rev. B. G. Upskv. pastor of the Hedding
forfeited to him by the non-appearance Urtu,,.f '(r,:an tt,.
of C. M. Hark of Manchester, and in the mains wi be tak;n (o rkiieId for in.
aiwmoon ne orsi . w. nan, also ni i, ,,.
il. i i -l.-i. t . , - I icriuent.
me local ciuo, oy i up ana o io go. lo
Chelsea, Aug. 5. Declaring that he was
not guilty of the charge, Otis Williams,
who was convicted in Orange cjunty;
court July 27 of second degree murder in
the death of Joseph .Felch of Waits Riv
er, his employer, on April 22, last, was
sentenced by Judge Stanton yesterday to
serve the remainder of his natural life in
the state prison at Windsor. Sheriff
Reed and Deputy Sheriff Tracy took him
by automobile to Windsor to-day.
There were not more than a score of
people in the court room when Williams'
was brought in for sentence, the size of
the crowd being much in contrast ti the,
attendance during the progress of tha
trial. When the convil'ted man was
asked if he had anything to say why
sentence should not be pronounced, Wil
liams arise and without betraying any:
sign of emotion but in a low voice as
serted his innocence of the charge. That
was all. Sentence was then pronounced.
Exceptions noted at the time of the trial,
may mean that the case will be taken to
supreme court.
Motion was made by counsel for Mrs.
Anna Felch, widow of Joseph Felch and
jointly indicted for murder with Wil
liams, that she be admitted to bail pend
ing her trial in the local county court)
but the motion was overruled. The trial
of the woman's case was continued, no
definite date being set but presumably it
will be held during the December term.
It is reported that the woman is to be
come a mother within a short time. Sho
is at prpsent an inmate of the Orange,
county jail here and probably will remain
here until her trial.
Court iJraned up its cases and took
final adjournment to-day. The session,
opened in June but there were several
recesses. One of the final acts of tha 1
court was the discharge of John W. Bige
low of Braintree from Orange county
jail, where he had been since early in
March on a certified execution. Dis
charge was granted on payment by Bigc
low of $100 and the taking of the poor
debtor s oath. Ihe man was placed m
jail on a certified execution following tho
award of damages against him in a case
tried in this court, which verdict was
sustained in supreme court.
CLOSES ON SUNDAY
day he met C. L. Holden of Bennington
n a Jo-hoie game.
Semi-Finals Results.
The results of the. semi-finals held yes
terday afternoon are as follows:
Fritz B. Jennings beat G. H. Frazer,
4 up and 3 to go.
. A. Barber beat C. S. Clark, 2 up
and 1 to go,
Losing Eight.
George Morse beat George Piatt, 7 up
and 5 to go.
C. L. Holden beat G. R. McKee, 1 up
19 holes.
Second Sixteen.
W. H. Johnstone beat'R. E. Smith, 4
up and 3 to go.
Frank Crocker beat J. P. Estey, 5 up
and 4 to go.
Losing Eight.
DEATH OF V0UNG CHILD
of
Son of Mr. and Mrs. A. A. Morris
Spaulding Street.
Reardon MeMinn Morris, the little son
of Mr. and Mrs. Allan A. Morris of 8
Spaulding street, passed away at 4
o clock this morning. . The child was
taken to the City hospital four weeks
ago and submitted to an operation for
hernia. Until a turn for the woTse came
yesterday, the chances for the infant's
recovery were considered favorable. He
is survived by his parents, two brothers,
Wilmarth and Winston Morris, and four
sisters, Viola, Eula, Erlcne and Leonora
Morris. The baby was two years and
nine months dlri. The funeral will be
held at the house Monday forenoon at
10 oclock and burial will be made in
E. I. Hall beat J. E. Walsh, 6 up and Hope cemetery. In the absence of Rev.
4 to go. I j. Reardon, who is away on his vaca-
h. B. Johnson beat W. H. Dunn, 1 up tion, Rev. Mr. Weller of the Universalis
19 holes.
Third Sixteen.
O. T. Murray beat Hugh Clement, 2 up.
George Worthington beat W. R. Pond,
up and 2 to go.
Losing Eight.
Joseph Comolli beat J. T. Fraser. 5 up
nd 4 to go.
D. J. MacMiIlan beat E. L. OIney. 3 up
and 2 to go.
church in Washington, will be the offi
ciating clergyman,
FOR GOVERNOR OF NEW YORK.
TO FULL BENCH
Senator Wagner Favored for Democratic
Nominee by Tammany Leaders.
Xew York, Aug. 5. Robert F. Wagner
of X'ew York, for governor, and Calvin
J. Huson of Yates county, for lieutenant
governor, was the ticket agreed upon at
a conference here Thursday night of 15
prominent Xew York City Democrats.
Goes Question Of Responsibilty of New Mr. asrncr i Democratic "leader in the
Haven Directors.
Boston, Aug. 5. The full bench of the
state supreme court will be called upon
to determine the merits of a suit for
recovery of $102,000,000 from former di
rectors of the Xew York. Xew Haven A:
Hartford railroad for alleged improper
expenditures between 1904 and 1909.
Judge (Yosby, it was snnouneed to-day.
has ret erred it back: to the full bench
! state Senate, and Mr. Huson is a form-r
commissioner of agriculture. The selec
tion followed a lengthy conference, at
I which Chnrlcs F Murphy, leader of Tam
many hall, was a prominent figure.
In the PlaygTound League.
Ever Feel This Way?
"I've borrowed out neichbos phono
graph for this venifip." "living a gsgfd to-day in an effort to prevent the
party?" "Xo. but by thunder I'm going further spread of what the superintend
Avers street leaders in the Playground
Itaiue. went down to defeat bv the
By trustees of the will of Olea Bull score of 4 to 1 yesterday afternoon at the
Avers street grounds to the Lincoln
( ampus team, who are in the cellar of
the league. It was the fastest game
played in Brr- this season, it taking
only 1:20 to play the entire nine innings,
for the Lincoln Campus team, IVnnisn
did the pitching and pitched a masterly
came, allowing b'lt two hits, while Paul,
the Ayrs street tw irler, allowed live
kits of the scratchy order.
The standing of the league is as fol
lows:
Won. Lost
Avers Strft 7 4
4
Barre's Community Chautauqua Drawing
Big Crowds.
The third day of the Chautauqua being
ideal in every way brought out large
crowds both afternoon and evening. Tha
Duntar Southern singers pleased a lnrga
audience in the afternoon. The banjo
work of J. Worth Allen and the readings
by Miss Horine took particularly well.
The work of the singers as a whole was
excellent.
In the evening Frederick Warde, tho
well-known Shakespearean lecturer, hold
the close attention of his audience for an.
hour and a hilf, during which time ha
acquainted them with the life and works
of William Shakespeare.
Previous to Mr. arde s lecture tha
Dunbar singers gave a short concert in
their costumes of the 60's.
The children's work, has been especially
gratifying to Miss Iwis, who has had
about 200 children every morning. Miss
Lewis has put forth much energy to
m-.ike the playground a success and tho
response has been very gratifying to her.
To-day is band duv, Victor's Florentine
band giving a popular concert this after
noon, with a lecture on A Living or a.
Life," by Dr. Euclid B. Rogers. This
evening will be devoted entirely to a full
grand concert by Victor's Florentine band
and Xeapolitan troubndours.
To-morrow afternoon occurs violin
recital by Ole Theobaldi, assisted by
Florence Alice Stitzel, operatic soprano,
and Mile. Helen elere. piano virtuoso.
In the evening, Miss Stitzell will give a,
so.v recital, and Andre Tridon, war cor
respondent, will give a lecture on "An In
side View of Mexico."
Sunday the programs will be open t
the piiblic, a section being reserved for
those liolding season ticket. This reser
vation will be made only until the enter
tainment begins.
TEAM HIT BY AUTO.
F. W.
Morey Was Somewhat Injured
When Thrown.
Vaiighan and other minority stockhold
ers of the road, as plaintiffs, contend
that the directors made vast expendi
tures unwisely.
DIPHTHERIA EPIDEMIC.
Is Spreading Among Dbctors and Kurses
in Boston.
Boston, Aug. 5. Phvsicians at the
Masachuetts Genaral hot.pital were en
- i
to have one juiet eenmg at home this rr.t de-ribed as a small epidemic of diph-INorth Barre 6
winter." Bottoa Trsnscrrt. thrria a mpn resident doctors and ouraes. Linccla Cc:-us ... 4
Waterburv, Aug. 5. F. W. Morey,
whose team was hit by an automobilo
Tlmrslav afttrnoon. was able to 1 ,
around yesterday, although he passed a
very restless night. W ith two horses an t
an express wagon, ne was driving m
Colbyville to get the ice cream for Utn
picnic, which was Iwins held in tne i.upt 1
grove, under the au?ptces of the Advcr.t
cburih.
P.y Wheolock Towne's a car tried to
pnss him. Iiittinc the rear of the express
wagon and badly demolishing the vehi
cle. Mr. Mort-y as thrown out upon thn
el.rtrie car track and r"reived some bad
cuts. He was assisled by Mrs. Towne,
Mr. CWi.man and Elder Lord into Mr.
Towne" bouse, and Pr. Steele wss railed
and dressed the wounds.
The horses remsined quirt, and later
one of them was harnessed into a single
buecy, snd Mr. Morey conveyed tlie io
cream to the picnic. To-day the driver
.Hi,of the r wss here to settle with Mr.
ret.
...")
