i
ton Alma't at be (by ConnI17'?, Xhj God'i ud Troth's." THE TRUE SOOTHBON, ??! Jobs, 1fMb
TURDAY, AUGUST 6, 1916. Vol. XLII. No. 49.
I
,f; W ?
?
?
betete na eould r?*
beck et him he was caught
and hale. He said Dr. Adams had
been "following him up" for several
dare aad he had tried in every way to
lied.
to the affair say
that after the stow wae struck and
Mr. DeeChamps > was down he
and had drawn bis knife out
he wie caught by Mr; Cooper
and another man. and that Mr. Ver?
aer had already caught hold of Dr.
Annans and pulled him off the plassa
of the hotel end out Into the yard.
Mr. DesChampa was taken across ths
to a doctor's office and Dr.
wae taken to his room in the
i<ator both were put under
heath today and he told his home peo?
ple how proud he is of them and ol
Clarendon county. He gave some
reminiscences of his boyhood days in
old Fulton township of this county.
Mr. DeeChamps praised the handsome
Clarendon county court house. He
lambasted so much politics and Jump?
ed on factionalism. Mr. DesChamps
told of the number of things this
State buys from the North and urged
diversified and intensified farming. He
was liberally applauded.
John T. Duncan discussed the "sys?
tem."
Gov. Richard I. Manning was re?
ceived with applause. He said he Is
running for reelection on his record.
Mr. Manning said law enforcement Is
The mattor eaused a good deal of 1 the paramount issue of this campaign,
ssjeftesnent on the streets, the cam?
paign crowd Just getting hold of the
re when the meeting broke up.
The meeting was held on tho court
sues lawn, S. Oliver O* Bryan, county
presiding. About 1,200
were present* it being Imuos
to tell whom they favored, ill
being g|v*n good attention and *ap
ptanse.
Ths candidates for minor State
ofllees l?d off la the spesklng, deliver?
ing their usual speechea The guber?
natorial rand dates were the last to
apeak, being Introduced In the follow?
ing ordsr:
R. A. Cooper said lie had entered
the rare for governor without getting
as It was two years ago. Some 1,600
purddns had been Issued in the admin?
istration preceding his and blind tigers
ran wide open then, he charged. He
said the queotlon today Is whether
there is to be a return to that condi?
tion or a continuance of the policies he
has put into operation. He reviewed
his Charleston policy and told of the
raiding carried out there by the con?
stables operating under Sheriff Martin.
He cited the reports of the solicitors of
Increased convictions In the last 18
months as evidence of his statement
on taw enforcement. The governor
?aid tho blind tigers In Charleston
hlMsed him and If he is reclectcd they
will have cause tu hiss him again, for
permlawion from any man or set of I h* proposes to continue to make them
men. He said he would be governor ?h*y th? ,aw- This statement drew
of all the psople If elected, and his! applause. "1 will make no compromise
statement that "any man who goes with crime," said the governor. Ho
Into office to puntnh his enemies or re- reviewed the business side of his ad
ward his friends Is unfit for the public ministration and the reorganisation
service." brought a round of applause,
la atreatng the Importance of enforc?
ing the law, Mr. Cooper said. If elect?
ed, he would respect the verdicts of
Juris*. Showing that 90 per cent, of
and remodeling of the State Hospital
for tho Insane. He was presented with
flowers and applauded.
Former Oov. Colo I*, llleaso was re?
ceived with cheers. He ridiculed the
the white children got no further than i Munnlng purade at Sumter yesterday
the common school, Mr. Coper advo- 1 ?aylng It was participated in by wo
cated the building up of the noighbor- I men and children and i>J voters by ac
hood school to a high standard. e?iu.il 'uul count. Mr. Mease said the la it j
to the first two years of college work, (legislature was so ashamed of what it
htr.' Ose per said he favors doing away i ?H?1 that they haven't yet published
ith scholarship* and free tuition In
its eollese*. proposing to loan needy
students the necessary money to pay
their way through college. He Maid
thta would remove the discrimination
against the church colleges, saying
they are entitled to a square deal. He
called on the people to forget past Ulf
their acts.
Mr. Bleaue scored tho tax commis?
sion, saying: "The chairman of that
board that fixes your taxes don't pav
any but a $1 poll." He said the
board of chartt'.CH Is USelesa He said
Mr, Manning voted attaint the SSpfl
rate coach bill while in tho senate, 000 000 tho vnluc of (ho
3?pW?3WWt^^
ductiOn of 12,916,000 equivalent 609*
pound bales. That compares with
14,266,000 bales forecast last month
by the bureau of crop estimates
hosing Its calculations on the condi?
tion of the crop on June 26, and with]
11,161,820, bales, last year's final pro?
duction, 16,134,930 In 1914, 14,166,
486 bales In 1913 and 12,703,421 bales
in 1912. The final output, however,
will be larger or smaller than above
forecast according as conditions here?
after are better or wrose than aver?
age conditions.
Condition of the crop on July 25
as compiled from reports of agents
and correspondents In the cotton belt
was placed at 72.3 per cent, of a
normal, compared with 81.1 on June
j26, 76.4 on July 26 last year, 76.4 In
1914, and 78.5, tho ten year average
on July 25.
During the month storms caused
some damage to the crop. In the
first week weather was favorable In
most places and the crop made satis?
factory growth, but, owing to earlier
unfavorable conditions, some fields
were irregular and in places the
plants were small and backward.
Boll weevil were reported damaging
the crop 1^ Texas, Mississippi, Ala?
bama, Arkansas and Louisiana.
High winds and heavy rains of a
tropical storm did serious damage In
portions of the central and east Gulf
States during the second week. Much
of the crop In the lowlands was
Hooded and uplands were badly wash?
ed and the crop otherwise Injured. In
extreme western Florida the crop was
damaged from 25 to 50 per cent, by
the storm. Contlnuo rains favored
boll woevll Increase and prevented
much needed cultivation. In the
western portion of the belt arid north?
ern part east of the Mississippi
weather was generally favorable and
the crop made good progress.
During the latter part of the
month some damn a' was sustained
from floods in tho northeastern sec?
tion. The weather west of the Mis?
sissippi was favorable, but in the East
it was less so, especially in tho low
hinds. Increased damage by boll
weevil was reported.
Statistics compiled by the bureau
of crop estimates show the value of
tho 1915 cotton crop was 10 per cent,
more than that of 1914, while the
production was ;>0 per cent, less
Total value of the 1911 crop was
$794.000,ono compared with $720,
1914 crop.
f.rences and to Join hand In putting ""d M dubbed the |ltt0H law cn-'Tho (.,.op wus vuIued at $i,027,
n..nth Carolina In the front ranks of jforcemcnt fund "a campaign fund to j OOO.OOO.
the sisterhood of States. Mr. Cooper I Mre hten to run around South t'aro- j Unt WUJ, valued at |gtl,00;6t? for
wae given a generous round of ap- ;hna and electioneer for Manning." He th(. 1915 (,rop vayiuif producers about
Stoves and cheers whsn he finished, [repeated his attack on Oov. Manning :* |1<f| rents u poum| UK ouiCU|uted on
J. M. DeeChamps wae on hie nativs(handling of ths atylum situation. averages based upon monthly prices
PEANUT IN PUCE Of COTTON
MAY PROVE USEFUL SUBSTITUTE
WHEN WEEVIL COMES.
MllLs Aid Movement ? Cottonseed
CriisherH Will Take Goobers Grown
in their Territory.
Clemson College, July 31.?One
crop which may be substituted for
cotton with the advent of the boll
weevil is the peanut, which can be
successfully grown throughout the
State, and particularly the lower half,
W. W. Long, farm demonstration
agent In the State, said yesterday. Mr.
Long further emphasized that one cot- .
tonseed oil mill in Charleston has been
crushing peanuts during the last 90
days. The supply was drawn from!
Virginia farms, which Mr. Long says
are no better suited for the growing
of this crop than is South Carolina
soil.
Another incentive, Mr. Long pointed
out, was that the South Carolina Cot?
tonseed Crushers' association has
agreed to handle this year all the pea?
nuts and soy beans grown by the farm
iers of this State. Mr. Long recently
'read a paper on the latter crop at the
annual convention of cottonsed crush?
ers in Atlantic Beach, Fla., and the
oil men agreed to this plan to encour?
age the introduction of crops to meet
the boll weevil ravage. A direct se?
quence of the peanut planting would
be the fattening of more hogs, which
could be easily disposed of through
the two packing houses recently es?
tablished in Orangeburg and Green?
ville.
Mr. Long is confident South Caro?
lina will be prepared for the boll
weevil upon its advance into South
Carolina, and that its appearance will
not be followed by the great decline
in land values that has resulted else?
where. From figures collected from
St. Louis It was shown that 3,000 beef
leattle were sold on that market from
Mississippi in 1007, the year when
the boll weevil was so disastrous to
the crops in the central &ov' h. Last
year the number of beef cattle sold on
itfiat market alone totalled 127,000. '
4i^if>ii;VTji^i ;wi,mij^^
iySm BURNED IN COTTON
BLAZE.
I Ed A. Jenkins Injured Trying to Save
Twenty Bale Truck Load From
Fire.
Columbia, Aug. 2.?Ed A. Jenkins,
operator of the Jenkins Express, was
painfully injured about the hands yes?
terday afternoon while unloading 20
bales of cotton that caught Are while
on his truck near Green and Huger
Streets. Mr. Jenkins was taking the
cotton from a warehouse to a cotton
mill. The cotton was scorched. The
lire department responded quickly to
the call.
NEGRO ARRESTED FOR RAPE.
Willie Darmoml Charged With Com?
mitting Assault on Negro Woman.
Willie Darmond, colored was ar?
rested this morning by Rural Police?
man Alex Xorris at Dixie on the
charge of having committed criminal
I assault upon a negro woman of that
section, the deed having been com?
mitted on Monday evening according
to the warrant which was taken out
by the woman. Darmond was placed
in the county jail to await trial on the
charge. He is a man of about thirty
years of age.
and monthly sales. For the 1914
crop the lint value was $691,000,000,
paying producers about 7.33 cents a
pound.
The value of seed of the 1915 crop
was $166,000,000, paying producers
$33.60 a ton compared with $129,
000,000, the value of the 1914 crop's
seed which paid producers $17.90 a
ton. The Increase in the price of the
seed over 1914 was greater than the
Increase in the price of lint.
Comparisons of condition on July
25, by States, follows:
Ten
July June July 25, Year
90 25 1915 1914 Av.
Va. . 87 90 79 89 82
N. C. . 70 76 78 86 79
S. C. . . 65 74 72 79 77
Oa. . .68 80 76 82 7S
Fla. . . ?2 83 78 86 81
Ala. . . 54 79 71 81 78
Miss . 66 85 76 79 77
La. . . .77 84 75 76 76
Tex . . 78 81 76 71 79
Ark . . 85 81) 80 72 80
Tenn . 82 84 85 73 82
Mo. . . 80 74 83 75 82
Okia . S4 84 69 75 79
Cal . loo loo 16 loo *99
IT. S. 72.3 81.1 75.4 76.4 78.5
*six year average
The next report will be Issued
Thursday, August 81, and will show
the condition of cotton on August 25.
RECORD TOBACCO SALE.
115,000 POUNDS OF WEED DIS?
POSED OF ON OPENING DAY
OF SEASON.
Prices Were Regarded as Good, Ave ?
aging About $11 a Hundred / ^
Ranging up to $35 In One Ca <?
Farmers Generally Pleased f ^ i
Price and Treatment. 9
A completed summary of th ac
co sales on the door of Sumter *> Jtre
house yesterday shows a record
breaking sale of tobacco on the floor
of Glenn's Tobacco Warehouse, con?
sidering the conditions of public i
highways after the protracted wet
spell, was pulled off, when one hun?
dred and fifteen thousand pounds of
tobacco changed hands.
A most gratifying feature of the
opening sale Was that the tobacco
growers who sold tobacco voluntarily
came forward in large numbers to
express their satisfaction at the high
prices which were paid. Secretary
P.eardon of the Sumter Chamber of
Commerce says many tobacco growers
expressed their satisfaction at the
high prices prevailing yesterday.
Many thousands of pounds brought
fancy prices ranging along $20, $23
and as high as $35 per hundred
pounds, but a great deal of the to?
bacco was ''first pulling, or sand
lugs," which averaged up over $11.00
per hundred pounds.
Tobacco was brought here from
twenty-five miles away, and Sumter,
Clarendon, Lee, and other counties
were represented in the sales.
A large corps ol buyers, represent
I Ing leading foreign and domestic to?
bacco companies, were on hand.
Mr. J. W. Glenn, the lessee and
manager of the Sumter warehouse, is
a hustler and Is doing his "level best"
to see that the tobacco buyers give
jthe highest market prices. He is
pleasing the tobacco growers any?
how, whether he adds anything to his
popularity with the tobacco buyers or
not. Mr. Glenn is anxious to make
Sumter a leading tobacco market, and
he has been encouraged in this l-Wd
LXKI^ K?. ao^a ftf thtt ilSTf ltntfr
"lf ,,mn*.?u .,( ..y^wn, "w?^
tobacco concerns ot this country, and
by the business men and bankers of
.Sumter generally represented by the
' Sumter Chamber of Commerce and
! Retail Dealers' Association.
TOBACCO MARKETS OPEN.
BRIGHT PROSPECTS IN SOUTH
CAROLINA BELT.
Good Prices Brought?Growers In
Many Sections Have Reason to Re?
joice in First Sales of Season.
Columbia, Aug. 2.?Opening for the
season with bright prospects the big
tobacco markets of the Pee Dee sec?
tion of South Carolina yesterday began
operations for 1916. Something less
than a million and a half pounds, ac?
cording to reports, was sold, the weed
bringing very good prices. Prices
paid ranged from 4 cents for the
. lowest grade of "sand lugs" to* the
J high mark of 60 cents a pound for the
; best tobacco gathered and cured be?
fore the storm which recently swept
! the Pee Dee section.
Sumter reported 100,000 pounds
sold; Tlmmonsvllle, 200,000; Harts
ville, 106,000; Darlington, 100,000;
Marion, 50,000; Lake City, 224,000;
Conwny, 125,000; Aynor, 65,000;
Loris, 75,000; Kingstree, 125,000, ar*d
Mailing, 75,000. Mullns one of the
large markets, did not report on the
amount, but indicated an active mar?
ket.
All signs, according to reports from
the tobacco markets, point to a sum?
mer of good times In the Pee Dee,
with high prices for tobaooo making
up lor the destruction caused by the
recent storm.
Ill (.HIS A SU FR AGETTE.
Republican Candidate Makes Bid for
Women's Vote.
New York, Aug. 1.?Charles B.
Hughes, the Republican candidate for
president comes out for a constitu?
tional amendment giving women the
right to vote. He makes this known
when replying to a telegram from Sen?
ator Sutherland, of Utah, inquiring
how he stood.
WILL EVACUATE KOVEL.
Germans Preparing* to Abandon Great
Stronghold In Russia.
London, Aiig. 1.? Rome reports
that the Germans are removing food
and munitions from Kovel, which they
are preparing to evacuate.
?J CAMPAIGNERS SPEAK.
j ers for state office
:ard by crowd of about
/ 2,000 people on court
/ house lawn.
udienee was Quiet and Orderly and
There Were no Unusual Features to
Mark Occasion?Big Parade for
Governor Manning Prior to Com?
mencement of Speaking.
?'rom The Daily Item, Aug. 1.
The seekers after Stale office wer?
the guests of Sumter today and a
crowd of about two thousand people
gathered on the court house lawn and
patiendy stood for four and a-half
hours to hear what the candidates had
to say about themselves, and their op
ponents, why they should be elected to
State office, and to tell of what they
would do, if elected. Each candidate
was given a careful and attentive
hearing, there being no unusual or
specially t -???nj; features to mark
the campaV
Gov. R. w^Cfanning was well re?
ceived In his home town. He received
the largest share of applause given to
any candidate, but the audience at
that did not at any time give general
applause that might be taken for an
ovation. Gov. Blease came in next
with the audience in the receiving of
applause. The other candidates re?
ceived good attention and their jokee
and pleasantries, as weil aa their
statements of the planks In their plat?
forms were well received. Duncan,
DesChamps and Cansler of Tirzah, es?
pecially the latter, seemed to please
the crowd with their sallies at the ex?
pense of others in the party.
The speaking started at 11 o'clock
jand was not through until shortly be?
fore 4 o'clock, or too late for a full
report of the speeches to be made in
this afternoon's paper. County Chair?
man John H. Clifton presided and
presented the candidates to the aud?
ience, Insuring to all the same courte?
sy and attention which they requested.
Just prior to the commencement Of
the speaking a reception wgs given to
Gov. Manning at the Claremont
! friends from *he surrolfni
A band had been secured and kftsr A
concert Gov. Manning was taken tit a
car, .following the band wagon, and
the parade In his honor came up
Main street and paraded around town
before the chief executive was taken
to the speaker's stand.
During his speech former Otrr.
Blease was brought two bouquets of
flowers, one merely marked "For
Blease," while the other carried the
card of J. W. Harper. Gov. Manning
received two bunches of flowers and a
basket of flowers "For our Governor
from Mrs. Teicher and the Misses
Teicher," R. E. Rembert and Mrs
John Alexander McKnlght, respective?
ly.
Gov. Manning was the last speaker
and at the close of the speaking many
of his friends gathered on and about
the stand to shake his hand. During
the speaking he had been on the
grounds meeting and speaking to hie
friends.
Many British Killed.
Special to The Dally Item.
l.i?ndon, Aug 3.? British casualties
reach a new high record, 6,196 were
lost today.
I
GAINS AND LOSSES.
Germans Announce Defeat of British
Attack and Admit French Gain.
Special to The Dally Item.
Berlin, Aug. 3.?The war office an?
nounces that the Brltsh were defeated 1
on the Somme front and admits that
the French gained slightly on the
Somme front and at Verdun.
_. <
GERMANS EVACUATE kovel. i
Russians Continue to Press Forward
Toward Ilmberg.
Special to The Dally Item.
Petrograd, Aug. 3.?The Germans
have begun the evaucation of their
base at Kovel. I'notllcial messages
state that the Russians have pushed
forward ten miles since crossing ths
Stock hod river, and are extending
their attacks father Into the Prlpet
marshes.
GAINS AT VERDUN.
French Repulse Attack on Somme
Recapture Outskirts of Fleury. .
Special to The Dsily Item.
Paris, Aug. 3.?The Germans were
repulsed today on both sides of the
Bomme and at Verdun. The French
have recaptured the outskirts et
Fleury station at Verdun.
