TCHUPL
DESTROYS t' AN
WAO:
'^c^V-
The Burnett immigration bill, with
the literacy test, which passed the
house two weeks ago by a vote of 308
to 87, is now before the senate and
will be desperately fought in the up­
per house.
"While the bill was in the house an
effort was made by Representative
Sabath to strike out the literacy test.
This was defeated on a roll call vote,
284 to 107. Every member of the
Minnesota delegation, excepting Rep­
resentative Smith of Minneapolis,
voted for the literacy test and against
Congressman Sabath's motion to
strike it out. On the final roll call
Mr. Smith voted for the bill.
.Party lines were not drawn on the
measure. Such Democratic leaders as
Sabath of Illinois and Gallivan of
Massachusetts worked with such
standpat congressmen as Mann and
Cannon of Illinois in opposition to
the literacy test. Even Congressman
Xjondon, the lone Socialist in the
house, voted against the bill and de­
voted one-half of his speech to an
arraignment of the trade union move­
ment in a tone that sounded like a
spokesman for the National Associa­
tion of Manufacturers,
Position Clearly Stated.
Frank Morrison, secretary of the A.
IF. of
Ii.,
before the house committee
I on immigration, stated the position
of organized labor clearly. He de
clared that a high tariff against cheap
(labor products is insisted upon by
I American trusts, but these trusts are
jthe chief opponents of immigration
restriction intended to protect Amer
ican workers. He held that Amer
ican manhood cannot compete with
the living standards of Eastern Eu
rope and Asia and that "it is unwise
to expect them to resist the tidal
waves of the Slav and. oriental on­
slaught*'' he further, s^id
"The proposition to prohibit immi­
gration to the United States of able
bodied men and women because they
cannot read has a sympathetic view­
point, where individuals are consid­
ered but, notwithstanding such a
viewpoint, the American Federation
of Labor, which represents the organ­
ized workers of the country, and
which is the only method or organ­
ization or agnecy which can with any
justification or reason represent the
unorganized workers, has repeatedly
declared by resolutions in conven­
tions "that the literacy test is the
most practical means of restricting
the present immigration of cheap
labor whose competition is so ruin­
ous to the workers already here,
whether native or foreign."
Few Farm laborers.
'"A great real has been said and
published in an endeavor to create
the impression that it is necessary
to induce immigration to come to
this country for the purpose of secur­
ing agricultural workers. There is
no question, in my mind, but that
such agitation has for its purpose the
enticing of immigrants to our country
to supply the United States Steel cor­
poration, the great manufacturing
concerns, coal companies, packing
Continued on Page 3.
As a people we have barely begun
to appreciate the value of those quali­
ties which imake for real progress,
the necessity to insist ai^jl presist in
formulating sound policies to re­
dound to the interests of the people
of our nation. Indeed, for years we
have delayed in even formulating a
national policy that would protect us
against such elements and conditions
which act as a barrier to the devel­
opment of American character and
national unity. We have excused this
d&ay on the ground that we were a
young nation that we had vast public
lands and national resources that
must be developed, and that we could
afford to open our doors to a practi­
cally unrestricted immigration in
order to increase our population.
Conditions Have Changed:
But conditions have changed. We
are no longer a young nation. We
have wasted much of our national
heritage and the frontier has practi­
cally disappeared. Recent events that
have tested national institutions and
men's faith to the uttermost, proved
conclusively that we cannot hope to
be the ideal which America repre­
sents, we cannot maintain a place of
influence in the affairs of the world,
if we do not plan to carry out those
purposes. Haphazard development
may do well enough for the ordinary
activities from day to day but will not
endure the teste of a great crisis or
the slower tests of time.
To achieve the best there is for our
nation, and for our citizens generally,
we cannot escape the duty devolving
upon, us of thinking out a national
policy that will develop out of the
many peoples within our boundaries
a homogeneous nation bound to­
gether by common ideals, common
customs, common language and a,
common culture..'
MAN'S MLL
Big Interests Demand Unlimited Samuel Gompers Urges Minnesota
Supply From World's Unions To Seek Passage'
Markets. of Law.
8
mi
Why Terrific Fight Is Made
Them Against Immigration
Bill.
WOULD HAVE CLAYTON
LAW APPLY IN STATE
Co
itip
lunch From Indictment of
fcneel Oficials By Ohio
Grand Jury.
Duluth labor unions received this
week from Samuel Gompers, Presi­
dent of the A. F. of L., a copy of a
proposed bill to be introduced in the
Minnesota Legislature to define the I
difference between the voluntary or
ganization of the workers and com- I
binations, corporations and trusts.
The proposed bill also provides for
the regulation and limitation of the
issuance of injunctions in labor dif­
ference.
The bill declares that it shall be
unlawful for workingmen and women
to organize themselves into or carry
on labor unions for the purpose of
lessening the hours of labor or in­
creasing the wages or bettering th«
conditions of the members of such
organizations or carrying out their
legitimate purposes as freely as they
could if acting singly.
Xo More Injunctions.
"No restraining order or injunction
shall be granted by any of this state,
or any judge thereof in any case in­
volving a growing out of a dispute
concerning terms or conditions of em­
ployment, unless necessary "to prevent
irreparable injury to property or to
a property right of the party making
the application, for which injury
there is no adequate remedy at law,
and such property or property right
must be described with particularity
in the application, which must be in
writing and sworn to by the applicant
or by his agent or attorney.
"No restraining order or injunc­
tion shall prohibit any person or
persons, whether singly or in con­
cert, from terminating any relation
of employment or from ceasing to
perform any work or labor or from
recommending, advising or persuad­
ing others so to do or from attending
at any place where any person or
persons may lawfully
:be,
VOL.23, NO. 36. DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, APRIL 15, 1916
for £hjj j»,ur-A
pose of obtaining or communicating?
information, or from persuading any
such person to work or to abstain
from working or from ceasing to
patronize any party to such dispute
or from recommending, advising, Or
persuading others to do or from pay­
ing or giving to, or withholding from,
any person engaged in such dispute,
any strike benefits or other moneys
or things of value or from as­
sembling in a lawful manner, and for
lawful purposes or from doing any
act or thing which might lawfully be
done in the absence of such dispute
by a single individual nor shall any
of the acts specified in this section be
considered or held to be illegal or un­
lawful in any court of this state,
"That the labor of a human being,,
is not a commodity or article of com-
1
merce, and the right to enter into
the relation of employer and em­
ployee, or to change that relation or
to assume and create a new relation
for employer and employee, or to
change that relation or to assume
and create a new relation for em­
ployer and employee or to perform
and carry on business with any per­
son in any place or to do work and
labor as an employee, shall be held
and construed to be a personal, and
Continued on Page 2.
America has not yet become a
nation. It is still a conglomerated
mass of various and diverse ethnic
groups. Hordes of immigrants have
crowded into our ports, and hAve, for
the most part, settled, in the nearest
industrial center. In some cases
they have in masses moved further
inland to industrial centers where the
nature of the work required compara­
tively little skill. In many of these
cases, the coming of the immigrants
was due to the activities of managers
of industries, who arranged to se­
cure the financial advantages by em­
ploying foreign workers who still re­
tained the standards and prejudices
of other countries.
They Do Not Americanize.
So we find in many indus­
trial centers sections that are
known as "Little Hungary," "Little
Italy," etc. The inhabitants of these
little nations transplant to American
soil the institutions and the standards
of their fatherlands. They gain
nothing by coming. These commun­
ities speak a foreign language, read
foreign papers, dress in accordance
with foreign customs and bring up
their families in accord with- foreign
standards. There is practically no
sustained effort on the part of
society or the nation to assimilate
these foreign groups and to make
of them Americans. Nor is this con­
dition confined only to the poorer
immigrants. There are foreign com­
munities in the resident districts of
the large cities. These remain even
more exclusively foreign because their
wealth enables them to have foreign
schools and foreign instruction for
their children. Thus the' foreign
group apd alien influence becorile
rooted in the life of the community.
The workers of America have felt
most keenly the pernicious results of
the establishment of foreign stand­
The Labor World has devoted considerable space of
late appealing to the unorganized workers of Duluth to
become enrolled under the banner of trade unionism.
The officers of the State Federation of Labor and the
members of the local organization committees are work­
ing among the non-union men and within the past six
weeks nearly 1,000 new union members have been ad­
mitted into existing" labor organizations and in the sev­
eral newly organized unions.
Most of the men so far organized are of the skilled
workers. We want to reach the unskilled workers, and
they can be reached if the right kind of effort is put
forth to organize them.
In appealing to the unorganized workingmen we seek
only to point out a way for them to better their condi­
tions. We were mightly impressed this week with an
article by Samuel Gompers, president of the American
Federation of Labor on "The Rising Tide of Organiza­
tion."
Everywhere throughout the country labor is gather­
ing under the trade union banner. The calls for or­
ganizers are so great that the American Federation of
Labor finds it difficult to fill the field. It must depend
largely on the work of volunteers. These volunteers can­
not reach as many workmen as the newspapers can, so
we are prompted to print this week the following splen­
did tribute to organization from the pen of Mr. Gom­
pers. We submit that it is worthy of the careful read­
ing of every workingman in this vicinity:
It's in the air—a vibrant hope that sees leading into
tomorrow a road to better things. It's a contagious
something, an infectious spirit of courage and inspira­
tion that extends from the toilers of packing house
towns to those actors behind the footlights from the
teachers in the public schools to the yet unorganized
workers In the steel plants from employes and clerks in
the Federal Government to miners delving far down in
the depths of mines. To highly skilled and to unskilled,
to those with high standards of living and those with the
law, to those of American customs and ideals to those yet
unfamiliar with the traditions and the language of our
land, there comes the vision thrilling with new oppor­
tunities, with the assurance of the attainment of rights
and justice.
This thing which brings hope to so many, which
points out the road to better things, is that intangible,
•invincible, powerful revolutionizing force called organi­
zation.
Organization is the way whereby the toilers of all
ages have found redress from wrongs: and have secured,
igggeafjjBr oppcH-tunitiegi Organisation has heeii tea&d atad
found effective.
There is nothing about organization that belongs to
a particular group of workers, to special kinds of work,
or to any particular degree of skill or kind of prepara­
tion for work.
Organization is a universal principle that has a mean­
ing for those who work with their hands, with their
braing, or with both.
Workers of all callings must learn that there are
principles of human welfare which are of paramount im­
portance. Conditions of daily work and living will not
be in accord with these principles of human welfare un­
less those workers primarily concerned have some con­
ception of their interests, and are prepared for sustained
efforts to realize their ideals.
Organization is only an intelligent attitude toward
everyday problems—the fundamental things of life. It
is a preparedness for the best development, to take ad-
PROFIT FOR WESTERN UNION.
NEW YORK, April 13.—The annual
report of the Western Union Tele
grayh company shows a surplus of
$18,882,968.62. The gross operat
in revenues increased over 1914 by
$4,907,019. It is stated that the in­
crease in expense was comparatively
small.
ards of work, wages and conduct in
American industries and commerce.
Foreign standards of wages do not
permit American standards of life.
Foreign labor has driven American
workers out of many trades, callings,
and communities, and the influence
of these lower standards has per­
meated widely.
For years the organized, labor
movement has called attention to
these vicious tendencies which effect
not only the workers but the whole
nation, for national unity is weak­
ened when the nation is honeycombed
with "foreign groups" living a fore­
ign life.
For America First.
The labor movement has urged the
adoption of a national policy that
would enable us to select as future
citizens of our country those who can
be assimilated and made truly Ameri­
can. The American Federation of
Labor has urged a literacy test, which
shall be applied to all immigrants.
Our nation has accepted as a funda­
mental principal that education en­
ables the girl or boy to attain better
development and to have better con­
trol over their own personal ability
and powers. It has been our na­
tional purpose to eliminate from our
country all. illiteracy. It is, there­
fore, in accord with this general plan
that we should establish the same re­
quirements for foreign-born persons
who desire to come and live in our
country. It has been urged that this
is not a perfect standard. Of course
no standard is perfect but the literacy
test is the most effective and practi­
cal. It has been claimed that our
greatest criminals are often educated
persoris. These are, however, only
conspicuous failures of education to
achieve its, desired ideal. Educated
criminality is not the fault, of educa­
tion, but is the Inherent fault or de­
riS J- I
BETTER OPPORTUNITIES WAIT FOR ALL
WORKERS IF THEY WILL BUT ORGANIZE
an*
fifcal
world
NON-UNION BAKERY IN FOLD.
ST. LOUIS, Mo., April 13.—The
McKinney Bakery company has
signed a contract with Bakers* union
No 4 and the Bakery Wagon Drivers'
union, after a short strike of the lat­
ter organization. This concern has
opposed organized labor for 15 years.
SAMUEL GOMPERS GIVES GOOD REASONS FOR IMMIGRATION RESTRICTION
fect in the nature or the physical
make-up of the individual. If it is
urged that education tends to crimin­
ality it would seem the wisest course
to remain in ignorance, a fallacy so
patent that its mere statement carries
with its own repudiation. Education
can not remedy all the faults of
human nature, but it is the greatest
instrumentality for human develop­
ment and betterment.
Self Preservation First.
It has been urged against the liter­
acy test that this standard would
make many suffer because they had
been denied opportunities. That may
be true, but it is equally true that our
nation can not work out all of the
problems of all other nations. We
can not undertake to educate all of
those to whom other countries deny
educational opportunities. Each na­
tion must undertake and solve its own
educational problems. The adoption
of the literacy test by our own coun­
try would have a tendency to force
nations to establish more general ed­
ucational opportunities for all of
their people. It is only a half truth
to say that the literacy test would
close the gates of opportunity to
illiterate foreigners. As a matter of
fact there is very little real oppor­
tunity for these people in our indus­
trial centers. Usually they are
brought over here either by steam­
ship and railroad companies and other
greedy corporations, by employers, or
as a result of collision between these
groups. They have been brought over
hee for the purpose of exploitation,
and until they develop powers of re­
sistance and determination to secure
things for themselves they have little
opportunity here. These same quali­
ties would secure for them .within
their own countries many of the ad­
vantages that later come to them
here..
vantage of opportunities that constantly arise, as well as
preparedness against exploitation, a narrowing of life's
hbrizon, and a cramping of individuality.
Organization of an economic nature has a meaning
for all workers, whether they be ditch-diggers or actors,
"wops" exploited by the steel corporations or teachers
by public school institutions. It is fundamental, protec-
secures for workers things which are the foun
ttJon for all betterment and progress.
The primary step is to secure leisure. This must be
iplemented by increased wages that make leisure a
avenue' to better living and self-development and
gdom necessary for self-respect. Economic contracts
iling with personal services or labor power area neces
f$ry Protection. Human nature and the spirit of the busi
"®fBS
are of such a character, that all concerned in
itis affairs must have defensive and aggressive agencies.
Those
"who work for wages (even wages termed sal­
aries) have the same kind of problems to solve, the same
kfnd of opposition to overcome. Economic organization
is the only agency that offers any practical effectiveness.
The problem of securing fairer, more just relations be­
tween employes and employers is the same regardless of
tbf
degree of skill or intellectual attainments necessary
for that particular work. Effectiveness in bargaining,
power to enforce demands, skill in organizing economic
pwer are the means to secure just compensation and im­
proved conditions under which work is done.
M^ny who hold themselves aloof'from "contamina
trade unions, who hedge themselves about the
"professional" pride, work longer hours and for less pay
thai do hodcarriers and common laborers. Teachers and
government clerks need economic organization just as
badly as do the most skilled and even the workers in the
steel plants and packing houses.
There has been what appears to be a concerted effort
by the enemies of the trade union movement to create
the impression that the American Federation of Labor
seeks to organize only the so-called skilled workers quite
the reverse is true. Those whose work requires a high
re of or a re pa at on a re re so on
later to recognize the necessity and benefits of organiza­
tion, and to seek organization on their own initiative.
But where less degree of skill is necessarly for work, and
wf«*e standards and conditions are lower, then the A. F.
does its hardest work to arouse a. desire for organi
zatlon and to cause opportunities to inaugurate it. But
wljea' the workers once grasp the purpose and possibil­
ities^ of organization, there has entered in|p men­
tality that which never leaves them and which cnanges
'their whole make-up.
Vj^!Th§ «ffectiVenegs of ecQjaLoffiic qrga|ti^tion does not
depend upon any strategic advantage derived from su­
perior skill, but upon skill in organization and in pre­
senting demands.
Because of skill in organization common laborers now
receive higher wages than many government clerks, rail­
road engineers receive higher pay than many officials in
petty banks.
Organization is intelligent self-interest. All who work
for wages have much in common. As the captain's lady
and Norah O'Grady were sisters "under the skins," so
there is a kindred spirit that unites all workers for fun­
damental interests regardless of superficial distinctions
and nomenclature.
There is coming for all workers a better life, a
brighter day, through economic organization, for the
maintenance of principles of human welfare—an organi­
zation which vivifies, democratizes and makes beautiful
the world of work and life.
TRACKMEN RETURN TO WORK.
CARBONDALE, Pa-, April 13.—
Trackmen and oth6r unskilled labor­
ers employed \y the Ontario & West­
ern railroad have secured wage in­
crease as the result of a strike.
About 150 men are benefited.
The section of the Burnett Immi­
gration bill which establishes the lit­
eracy test provides for no unfair re­
quirements. It says:
"All aliens over 16 years of age,
not read the English language, or
some other language or dialect, in­
cluding Hebrew or Yiddish Pro­
vided, that any admissible alien, or
any alien heretofore or hereafter
legally admitted, or any citizen of the
United States, may bring in or end
for his father cr grandfather over 55
years of age, his wife, his mother, his
grandmother, or his unmarried or
widowed daughter, if otherwise ad­
missible, whether such relative can
read or not, and such relative shall be
permitted to enter. For that purpose
of ascertaining whether aliens can
read, the immigrant inspectors shall
be furnished with slips of uniform
size, prepared under the direction of
the Secretary of Labor, each contain­
ing not less than 30 nor more than 40
words in ordinary use, printed in
plainly legible type in some one of
the various languages or dialects of
immigrants. Each alien may desig­
nate the particular language or dia­
lect in which he desires the examina­
tion to be made, and shall be re­
quired to read the words printed on
the slip in sufch language or dialect."
Still a "Haven of Refuge."
An attempt was made to create the
impression that the literacy test Mil
close America as a haven of refur to
political refugees and those perse­
cuted because of religious faith. That
this is wholly unwarranted in fact is
evident from the following portion of
the proposed act:
'That the following classes of per­
sons shall be'exempt from the opera­
tion of the illiteracy test, to wit AH
aliens who shlallprove to the satis­
faction of the 'proper immigration
officer or to:
the Secretary of -LaborK
lift
Federal Investigation Bill Intro
duced At Most Opportune
Time.
CHILD DELINQUENCY
OUTCOME OF POVERTY
Economist Tells of Findings of
Illinois Vice Commission—
Strong Indictment.
By SCOTT NEARING
(Profesor of Economics, University
of Toledo.)
(The Labor World's Special Service)
The Keating-Kenyon resolution
calling for an investigation into the
extent of child poverty in the United
States is made especially timely by
the accumulating weight of evidence
that child poverty is a fertile breed­
ing ground for vice and crime.
A Chinese proverb holds that
"Crime begins in poverty." Most re­
cent social investigations lend an ever
growing emphasis to our belief in the
correctnes of this statement.
Poverty Explains Vice.
The home surroundings under
which many boys ond girls grow up
furnish a wholly satisfying explana­
tion of the lives of crime and vice
into .which the children fall. The
fariest flower is ruined if it is drag­
ged into the mire. Children cannot
hope to learn decency in. homes where
according to a recent report on the
poor children of a great American
city, ".Many have no beds to sleep in.
They cuddle together on the hard
floors."
Lines Seldom Meet.
He points out that a charge is
never ordered until the resistance of
the enemy has been broken by artil
ery fire. It is only rarely that a
charge is met by a counter charge, al­
though such a struggle is by no
means unknown, as shown by the
records. When two lines do meet,
it is because the attacker9 have
reached a point where the cannot be
well flailed by the big guns. The only
way they can be thrown back is to
send men in with the bayonet. This
is a dangerous remedy, for if the at­
tackers break the counter charge
there is no telling where the victor­
ious sweep may end.
Evils from Exhaustion.
"A bayonet charge? is-usually ..the
slew ample of .-a. .lo&..o£ brutally tired
men over the ground that" "has Ween
torn to pieces by the big guns,' said
Dowd." One never goes forward with
head up, gun' canted over the right
shoulder, eyes bright and elert, and
flags flying, as one sees in pictures.
The men grope their way forward at
a half trot, heads bent forward to
study the ground, guns carried
loosely in one hand. For liours—
sometimes for days—one has been
carrying a pack of 60 pounds or more.
Sleep has come only through utter ex­
haustion. All night one has been on
the alert against surprise attacks and
has marched by day. One has
reached that point of utter fatigue
when the nerve can hardly whip mus­
cle on."
Another Investigation reports an
entire family living in one room a
man, wife, three shildren and two
boarders eating ^nd sleeping in a
kitchen and one bedroQjn.
Similar conditions force themselves
upon our attention from the pages of
every recent study of standards of
living, leaving no doubt in the mind
of the thoughtful observer that the
children brought up under such
frightful surroundings must neces-
Continued on Page 2.
that they are seeking admission to
the United States to avoid religious
{persecution in the country of their
last permanent residence, whether
such persecution be evidenced by
overt acts or by laws or by govern­
mental regulations that discriminate
against the alien or the race to which
he belongs because of his religious
faith. Provided, that nothing in this
act shall exclude, if otherwise admis­
sible, persons convicted, or who ad­
mit the commission, or who teach
and advocate the commission, of an
offence purely political."
The proposed legislation does' not
represent a radical change in the
policy of our nation. It is an exten­
sion of our educational policy, and is
in harmony with the conviction that
has been growing recently that we,
as a nation, must leave our haphaz­
ard methods of development behind,
and inaugurate a definite sustained
national policy that shall promote our
best development, and shall coordin­
ate and organize all of the resources
of our country and plan for their best
utilization.
Steamship Companies Active.
Opposition to the literacy test and
to any propositon to restrict immi­
gration has come from steamship
companies, steel corporations, coal
operators and -other employers
whose financial interests were associ­
ated with maintenance of large num­
bers of workers forced by their help­
lessness to work for low wages. The
activities of these interests have been
given a c'oak. of respectability by
many who, for sentimental reasons,
were unwilling to endorse any form
of restriction immigration. But the
selfish interest or sentiment that is
contrary to the fundamental princi­
ples- of national welfare can not frus­
trate efforts to..promote the best- in­
terests ok our nation,!.
TWO GENTS.
Railroad Brotherhoods Tell Wtfy
It Takes So Longfto Ship
Freight.
ROADS ECONOIMZE AT
EXPENSE OF SERVICE
Hold Cars At Terminal Until Full
Train Can Be Made.
Up.
The railroad brotherhoods who aire
asking for an eight hour day, claim
that it would be a great 'benefit to the
public who ship and receive freight.
Some of their reasons are that in
these days of keen competition and
quick changes of styles in manufact­
ured goods, merchants are sadly
handicape by the fact that freight
shipments are so slow that the styles
change and discounts, are lost through
delay in receiving goods.
All merchants and most manufac­
turers try to buy in as small quantities
as possible and make quick turnovers
in their stock, but with slow freight
shipments it is Impossible to do this.
Long Trains So Traffic.
Railroads, in order to increase their
earnings per train mile, are loading
their locomotives with every car that
they can possibly pull.
Trains are not made up at division
or terminal points until a sufficient
number of loaded cars are accumu­
lated in the terminal to make up the
full tonnage of the locomotive. Cars
containing merchandise are held up
at terminal points until enough other
cars show up at that erminal point
to make up a long train.
Three Weeks from New York.
When it is remembered that ship­
ments say from New York to towns in
the middle west pass through from 15
to 20 terminal or division points,
meaning delays at each point, it can
be readilly be seen how serious the
aggregate of time lost would be to
merchants and. jobbers. When these
long trains are finally made up at
each division point they are loaded to
full capacity and drag along at snail's
pace. The trains are so long that
oftentimes the sidings will not hold
them and at meeting points between
two trains* on single track railroads
more time is lost by trains having to
"saw" by.
Another, factor- og raih^dtng today
isthe fact thai fn these long- 'trains
only cars that are in perfect condi­
tion can be used, because' of the
strain upon the couplers and under
framing which result in pulled-out
drawhetfds, broken car frames, etc.
This is'one of the reasons for car
shortage, becaue, as soon as the car
begins to detorioate, it must be placed
on the side tract and taken out of ser­
vice.
I
Why the 8-Hour Day..
If trains were moved more rapidly
cars would reach their destination, be
unloaded and put back in service
quicker. The train crews in asking
for a basic eight hour, day, means
that freight trains must make an
average of 12% miles per hour in
order to avoid payment of overtime
instead of the 10 miles per hour as at
present. There-is no demand for any
change in the passenger service—only
freight.
Under the present 10 hour day sys­
tem there is no penalty for working
a man overtime, cosequently, if train
crews are kept on the road longer
than 10 hours payment made for
overtime other than the regular pay­
ment per hour that the trainmen get
before the 10 hours expired. Under
Continued on Pfege
The meaning of America lies in the
ideal she represents. That ideal is
liberty and opportunity. But beauti­
ful as any ideal may be, it becomes
of practical value when it has effec­
tiveness in the daily lives of men and
women.
Heal liberty and opportunity mean
a certain mental attitude toward life,
certain standards of life and work,
and possesion of that which secures
the enjoyment of opportunities.
America the ideal—the land of the
free—exists only when her people are
Americans in all things.
Ours has been a most perilous task
—to weld together those from other
lands who Have sought our shores and
to make of them homogeneous people
—a nation with common ideals, com­
mon standards of living, a national
language and an ideal national
patriotism.
America, the Ideal.
The building of a nation is not a
thing of chance—it is the result of
statesmanship, knowledge of tenden­
cies, a discernment of Cause and
effect, ability to distinguish the good
from the evil.
Too long our national policies have
been determined by sentimental emo­
tions, business profits and political
expediency. But there must come a
change. These months of terrible
warfare have compelled a testing of
things that have passed over. "The
world.is .afire"—and we must put our
own house in order lest we, too, be
caught unawares. We must search
out each weakness and strengthen
every danger point.
The workers of America make the
demand that there shall be restriction
of immigration to such as can be
readily .identified and .assimilated
with Americana and can become truly
American/
*'4
