1
mm
1 13T I J I I U t 'J
VOL. LVII1. NO. 91
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., SATURDAY, APRIL 15, 1916
TWENTY PAGES
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's- Circulation In Norwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Tctal Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
PQRTENTIOUS LULL
IN VERDUN BATTLE
But Germans Continue to Vigorously Shell Le Mort
Homme Sector, Northwest of Verdun
FRENCH ARE AWAITING INFANTRY ATTACKS
Heavy Gunfire of Germans is Assumed to be in Preparation
for Infantry Attacks and French Are Holding Themselves
in Readiness to Meet It German Attacks on the Rus
sian Front Failed of Their Purpose Italians Have Cap
tured the Complete Crest of Lubba Alta From the Aus
trians Russian Report Says the Turks Have Fallen
Back in Disorder From Erzerum. ,
Except for the artillery wings of
the contending armies there has been
no fighting at any point on the long
front In France and Belgium.
Several days have now elapsed
since the Germans launched a heavy
attack on the positions In dispute be
fore Verdun, ibut their artillery has
continued vigorously to shell the Le
Jtort Homme sector northwest of
Verdun and the second line positions
of the French east of the ileuse.
The French in the former sector are
still answering with their big guns the
German fire and evidently are hold
ing themselves in readiness In antici
pation of the infantry attack that
usually succeeds preparatory bom
bardments. In the Argonne the French continue
to operate with their guns against
German points of vantage and in the
region of the Pont-a-Mousson they
have shelled convoys of Germans.
On the Russian front the Germans
essayed attacks between Lakes
Sventen and Olzen, but were repulsed
with heavy casualties. In Galicia,
southeast of Boutchache, the Germans
also took the offensive but here again
were repulsed. The Russians claim
the capture In the Stripa region of a
German position and the putting down
of counter-attacks launched with the
intention of recapturing it.
According to the Rome official com-
MILITARY AND PHYSICAL
TRAINING FOR BOYS.
Measure Recommended by Gov. Whit
man Passed in New York Senate.
Albany, N. Y., April 14. The senate
today considered out of its regular or
der and passed by a vote of 41 to 1 the
bill to provide for general military and
physical training of boys between the
ages of 16 and 19 years. This action
was taken after Governor Whitman
had sent a special message urging
"preparedness legislation."
Senator George F. Thompson of Ni
agara, the only senator to vote in the
negative, was severely criticized by
Senator Ogden L. Mills of New York.
"This nation is in no danger of
war," said Senator Thompson. "All of
the nations with which it might pos
sibly become engaged in war are so
busy slaughtering one another that the
United States never was safer than at
present. All this preparedness and war
talk is inadvisable at this time.
"I don't want my 12 year old boy to
be trained to carry arms and to be
rushed into a fight he knows nothing
about. And that is what will happen
if this talk a,?rsists and this legisla
tion becomes law. I talked recently
with a soldier from the European war
who returned with a bullet hole in his
"neck. I asked him what the war was
all about and he replied he did not
know I appeal to you, senators, to
take a short trip through Canada, visit
the little villages along the border and
see for yourself how they are devas
tated of their manhood who have gone
to fight in a war and they do not
know why."
Senator Thompson also said the
Mexican difficulty had been occasioned
only because some people had wished
"to turn twenty cents into a dollar."
Senator Mills was on his feet in an
instant. t
"The senator who has just spoken
does not belong here," Mills shouted.
Tie belongs in Lincoln, Nebraska,
along with another man who has gone
about the country prattling the same
kind of nonsense. But, gentlemen,
don't stop with a visit to Canada. Go
to Belgium and see there the devasta
tion resulting from unpreparedness. If
it's come to a point where we're not
going to war because we're afraid of
getting! a bullet In our necks, then God
save the United States!"
The measure passed today Is intend
ed to provide for supplementary train
ing in military tactics and would in
clude others than students.
ARMY AEROPLANE CORPS
MAKES A NEW RECORD,
Continuous Flight of 310 Miles in Four
Hours and Five Minutes.
Corumbus, N. M., April 14. .Lieuten
ants El S. Gorrell and H. A. aDrgue
of the army aeroplane corps today es
tabllfhed what was said to be a new
American army record for continuous
flight. The flight of 310 miles was
made in four hours and five minutes,
the aviators said upon their return
here, exceeding Iby about 22 miles a
previous record made in Newport
News. Va., last week.
Part of the flight was made over the
northern range of the Sierra Mad re
and under what the men described as
the worst weather conditions they have
encountered in the campaign. Icicles
formed on their moustaches and eyelids
and their fingers were numb with cold.
The two lieutenants were undoubt
edly the two scouts detailed to explore
the Sierra JVIadre passes and trails and
locate the forces of General Arnulfo
Gomes, who is said to be awaiting or
ders to proceed into the Chihuahua
District to pursue Villa, or, if the oc
casion arises, to be in position to
threaten the line of American communication.
municatlon the Italians have ; capured
from the Austrians and consolidated
the position. JonslaeraDio iniamry
fighting has also taken place on the
Mrali and,'Montenero sector, but else
where along the front there have been
only the customary oomaarumoins.
The Russians repcrt further sue
censes utrainet Turks around Erze
rum, . where the Turks, having been
on the offensive for six days, were re
nulaed with heavy losses and are fall
ing back in disorder. Nothing addi
tional has come through concerning
Vhe defeat of the Turks by the British
forces in Mesopotamia, where the
Turks were driven back along the Tl
grls distance" varying from one and a
half to three miles. London regards
this victory as a step forward to the
relief to the beleaguered British
forces at Kut-el-Amara,
One American seaman was on board
the British steamer Inverlyon which
la renorted to have been sunk by a
Herman submarine. The captain and
all the men of the crew of the vessel
have been landed in England, but a
boat with sloven other members of
the crew is n-Jseing.
The Germans not only have mined
the southern entrance from the sound
to the Baltic but also have set steel
nets in the channel to trap British
submarines endeavoring to enter the
Ealtic, '-says the -Norwegian shipping
gazette. .
NATIONAL REGISTRATION 18
URGED IN CANADA
With a View to Some Form of Con
scriptioni Voluntary Plan a Failure.
Ottawa, April 14. National regis
tration with a view to some form of
conscription was urged upon Premier
Borden and members of his cabinet
today by a delegation representing 42
recruiting leagues in Ontario, the
Maritime provinces and the west.
They told the premier that the present
voluntary system was not getting
enough men and that those who were
coming forward were those citizens
whom Canada could least spare. There
was too large a proportion of married
men, they said when it was considered
that every married soldier cost the
country $37 more a month than a
single man.
The premier in reply did not com
mit the government to any expression
of views as to the merits either of
compulsion or the voluntary system,
but reminded the delegation that there
had so far been no lack of rcruits since
men were coming forward at the rate
of 1,000 a day. He admitted that there
were loopholes for economic waste in
the system of voluntary enlistment
but said that the government had been
endeavoring to arrange that me.i
drawn from the industries could best
afford to spare them. He promised
earnest consideration of the delega
tion's representations.
SAVINGS OF POOR WOMAN
REVERT TO CONNECTICUT.
Rose Stroheker Left Neither Heirs Nor
Beneficiaries.
Meriden, Conn., April 14. The state
of Connecticut has been made richer
by $306.98, the savings of a poor Meri
den woman, Rose Stroheker, who died
four years ago. She did not leave any
heirs or beneficiaries afnd the adminis
trator of the estate, Patrick T. O'Brien,
made application to the probate court
to have the money revert to the state.
Originally the estate was only $254.40,
but interest accruing in a local sav
ings bank has increased it to $306.98.
No claimants came forward for the
money, so in probate court today
Judge D. T. O'Brien directed that the
mony be paid over to the state as di
rected by law. Cases of this kind are
rare.
HARVARD GRADUATE
A WAR VICTIM
Julian A. Lathrop Was With Ambu
lance Corps in France.
Cambridge, Mass., April 14. The
death of Julian A. Lathrop of New
Hope, Pa., a Harvard undergradute
who left college at midyear to join the
American ambulance corps in France,
was reported to classmates today. He
died "while on the field of duty from
the effects of a wound received when
transferring wounded to a relief hos
pital under heavy fire," the message
said.
A MEXICAN NEWSPAPER
CORRESPONDENT SHOT
Was Charged With Writing Articles
Opposed to Caranza.
Laredo, Texas, April 14. Juan Ama
rio, a correspondent fqr a Laredo
(Mexican) paper, recently arrested in
Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, on a charge of
writing articles opposed to Carranza,
was taken from a train between Vil
ladano and Lampazo and shot, accord
ing to reliable information received
hr,?,aJ- Amario was oelng taken
to Queretaro for trial, the report said,
Cabled Paragrao
16 of Crew of Steam'' y.o Landed
Queenstown, Ire'' Tipril 14, 5: SO
p. m. Sixteen r--rs of the crew
of the Londo" Tnship Ohio, which
was torpedo. I V.1 sunk by a German
submarine wtJe landed here today. A
boat with eight men in it is missing.
CABINET WENT OVER
SUBMARINE CRISIS
Reaffirmed Their Determination to
Bring the Situation to an Issue.
Washington, April 14. President
Wilson and the cabinet went over the
submarine crisis again today and re
affirmed their determination to bring
the situation with Germany to an is
sue.
The decision to inform Germany
that recent accumulations of evi
dence of ships destroyed in subma
rine warfare leads to the inevitable
conclusion that her promises to the
United States are not being fulfilled
remained unchanged. The time ot
dispatching a communication to Ber
lin appeared to be the only point un
decided. In congress today a report was
widely circulated that the forthcom
ing note would in itself give notice
of a severance of diplomatic relations.
There was nothing to substantiate
the story anywhere in official quarters.
Cabinet officers did not deny it, upon
the ground that they ail had been
bound in honor by the president not
to speak upon the subject in any way.
There were repeated indications to
night that the note would be a state
ment of the American case up to date
without anything in the nature of an
ultimatum and still would leave the
way open for Germany to avoid the
long feared break in diplomatic rela
tions. It was plain, however, that it
would be intended as the American
government's last word.
DESCRIPTIONS OF MARVELOUS
FEATS OF SURGERY PERFORMED
Given at Session of American Philo
sophical Society.
Philadelphia, April 14. Descriptions
of marvelous feats, of surgery per
formed on wounded soldiers and of
experiments on college students to
discover secrets of the digestive ap
paratus were among the features of
today's session of the American Philo
sophical Society. Experiments with
vibrating telephone diaphragms which
it was declared will eventually solve
the problem of sending numerous
messages over one wire at the same
time, was the subject of numerous pa
pers covering a wide range of human
Knowledge read and discussed by the
prominent scientists present.
Dr. Harvey Cushing, professor of
surgery at ' Harvard unlveiV'.y, who
served with the American Ked Cross
in France, described how by means of
magnets and development of the
science of probing, surgeons are now
Eible to remove bullets and particles
of shell that have become embedded
in brain tissues.
The exporiment on college students
were described by Dr. Martin E. Re
fuss, of Jefferson Medical College, of
Philadelphia, in a paper on The Hu
man Gastric Secretion. Examination
of the gastric Juices obtained by
means of rubber tubes dropped inio
the stomachs of the students, ho said,
caused him to come to the determina
tion that the stomach never rests and
that there is a wide divergence in tUe
digestive periods required by different
persons.
NEW CREDIT OPERATION
FOR FRANCE UNDERWAY.
Financial Representative of
Government Here.
French
New York, April 14. Negotiations
for a new credit operation for France
are well underway in this country, ac
cording to a statement made today by
Octave Homberg, financial representa
tive of the French government in the
United States.
The announcement was prompted by
reports that France would soon find
itself short of dollars for payments
here, with the result that an atmos
phere of nervousness was reflected in
the exchange market followed by a
certain amount of ship construction
which caused the rate of France to
rise frequently to a very high quota
tion. BRITISH GOVERNMENT IS
CONSERVING IRON AND STEEL.
Places Absolute Prohibition on Export
to Any Destination.
London, April 14, 7.04 p. m. The
British government this evening pro
claimed an absolute prohibition of the
export to any destination of all kinds
of pi;; iron and nearly all kinds of
steei The prohibition on steel applies
especially to the variety used by rail
roads ind ship builders, including rails,
sleepers, spnngs, wheels, axles, tubes,
girders, ingots, bar angles and rods
and cf plates more than an eighth of
an inch in thickness.
FUND OF $110,881 FOR THE
SUPPORT OF RETIRED CLERGY
Announced at Session of Troy Meth
odist Conference.
Saratoga, N. Y.. April 14. Announce
ment of a fund totalling $110,881 for
the support of retired clergymen and
their fmilie was made in a report sub
mitted today to the Troy Methodist
conference. That the amount raised
was not larger was attributed to what
was declared to be a check put upon'
extensive giving because ,of business
conditions.
NO AMERICANS KILLED
IN ATTACK ON GUERRERO
Consul Letcher at Chihuahua Tele
graphs State Department.
Washington, April 14. Consul Letch
er at Chihuahua telegraphed the state
department today that there were in
dications that no Americans were kill
ed in Villa's recent attack on Guer
rero. The American consul at Monterev
reported that conditions there were
quiet, the food situation consldrablj
relieved and Americans well treated.
TRADE OF $1,500,000 A DAY
WITH SOUTH AMERICA.
Business Now in Exceee of Any Pre
vious Year.
New Tork. April 14. Trade between
the United States and South America
now averages approximately $1,500,000
a day and is far in excess of any pre
vious year, according to figures com
piled by the National City bank of
New Tork. The increase has extended
both to imports and exports.
Senate Votes for
Nitrate Plant
TO MANUFACTURE WAR MUNI
TIONS AND FERTILIZER.
VOTE STOOD 43 TO 22
An Amendment to the Chamberlain
Army Increase Bill Proposing an Ap
propriation of $15,000,000 Carried
Not More Than' Five Water Site.
Washington, April 14. Champions
of a government hydro-electric plant
to produce nitrate for the manufac
ture of war munitions and fertilizer
won their fight in the senate today
by inserting an amendment proposing
an appropriation 'of $15,000,000 for
that purpose into the Chamberlain
Publicity Stimulates at All Times
Those who have tried out various experiments know that there
should be a judicious use of advertising nd that advantage should
be taken of its trade pulling power at all times. The power by which
thosuands of minds can be turned to the consideration of the same
thing is a wonderfully useful influence. Whether that power is em
ployed to make readers think of the policies of the government or the
homely comforts and economies affecting their dally, lives, the under
lying value of this power Is the same; the advantages to be gained
from its use are identical.
With the newspaper this power is at work all the time. What is
overlooked today is caught tomorrow and the business stimlation
which comes through such publicity no business house can afford to
neglect. It helps to make tho bad business periods better and develops
the good seasons to points which would not otherwise be reached.
The Bulletin with its circulation which goes into the homes of
Eastern Connecticut has demonstrated it for others. It will do tho
Bame for you. .
The following matter appeared in its columns during the past
week:
Bulletin
Saturday, April
Monday, April
Tuesday, April
Wednesday, April 12.
Thursday; April
Friday, April
army Increase bill. The vote was 43
to 22.
The action disposed of the second
big contest over the senate substitute
for the house army bill. It was taken
In spite of the contentions of the mili
tary committee that an army reor
ganization measure was no place for
water power legislation. A nitrate
water power section in the house bill
was defeated when the Hay bill was
under consideration ia the house, bo
that final determination of the issue
must await action by the conference
committee by the two houses.
Not More Than Five Water Sites.
Today's action was based on an
amendment by Senator Smith cf
South Carolina. It would provide for
sale of Panama Canal bonds by the
government for raising tho required
$15,000,000 and the president would be
authorized to designate not more than
five water power sites to make them
available for power plants to manu
facture nitrates. Products of these
plants, to be operated exclusively by
the government, not needed for man
ufacture of munitions of war, could
be disp6sed of and sold by the secre
tary of war for "he manufacture of
fertilizer, "and other useful products."
Split in Party Lines.
Three democrats,. Senators Cham
berlain, chairman of the military
committee; Johnson 'of Maine and
llardwick voted against the amend
ment. Seven republicans. Senator
Clapp, Gronna, Kenyon. La Follette,
McCumber, Xorris and Polndext3r,
joined with the majority in supporting
it.
Over the objection of the military
committee an amendment by Senator
Pomi-rene, giving military rank to
members of the dental corps, was
adopted.
New Oath for National Guardsmen.
Senator Wadsworth urged adoption
of his amendment to require officers
arid enlisted men upon entering the
national guard to take an oath to
obey the orders 'of both the president
and of the governor of their state. He
said the amendment would strengthen
the proponed federalization of the na
tional guard by making the officers
and men federal soldiers from the
moment of enlistme'nt instead of only
in time of war. Senator Chamberlain
was willing to accept the amendment,
but considerable opposition developed
among southern senators.
On a roll call the vote for the pro
posal was 23 to 22, less than a quo
rum, and the senate recessed until to
morrow at 11 o'clock, when the de
bate on the bill under the ten-minute
rule will be resumed.
PANAMA CANAL WILL .
BE REOPENED TODAY
Waterway Has Been Closed Virtual
ly for Seven Months. ,
Panama, April 14. The Panama Ca
nal will be reopened tomorrow with
the passage of probably 15 ships of a
total of 26 which have been waiting
to go through the waterway since the
announcement was made that It would
be again ready for traffic April 15.
There will be no ceremonies to mark
tho event. The waterway has been
closed virtually for seven months,
during which time the dredginb fleet
has removed a vast quantity of de
bris fro mthe Galllard cat and has
made the channel through tho cut
better than it ever was.
The canal has been widened 300
feet for a distance of a quarter of a
mile and has a maximum 'depth of ap
proximately 35 feet.
Developing Glues
In Bomb Plots
MAY LEAD TO IDENTITY OF
MEN "HIGHER UP"
WHO FURNISHED MONEY
National Bank Examiner to Investi
gate Six Accounts Carried by Dr.
Walter Scheeie In Banks in Ho
boken, N. J.
New York, April 14. Clues which
will lead to the identity of the men
"higher up" who furnished the money
for tee alleged conspiracy to manu
facture and distrubte bombs to destroy
munitions ships, for which eight men
are under arrest, are expected by the
federal authorities to be revealed
. Telegraph Local General Total
8.. 91 200 1146 1437
10.. 105 157 230 492
11.. 104 i 138 206 448
12.. 85 133 148 366
13. . 18 151 304 636
14.. 134 140 199 473
700 919 2233 3852
through the examination of the hank
accounts of Dr. Walter T. Scheeie, who
Is now being sought.
To Examine Eank Accounts.
A national hank examiner will come
here from Washington tomorrow. As
sistant United States District Attorney
Roger D. Wood said tonight, to in
vestigate six accounts carried by Dr.
Scheeie In banks in Hoboken, X. J.
Tf anybody handled the big sums.
It was Scheeie, and we hope to be able
to find where he got it." Mr. Wood
said.
Scheeie Disappeared April 1.
Scheeie was the head of the New
Jersey Agricultural and Chemical com
pany at Hoboken, where it is alleged
the explosive materials wore placed in
the bombs aft-r they had been con
structed aboard the North German
Lloyd steamship Friedrkh dcr Grosse.
interned at Hoboken. He disappeared
from his apartment here on April 1.
The authorities are also Interested in
locating his set-rotary. Miss Kuth loss,
whem they wish to examine.
Developments Expected.
Additional developments in the in
vestigation of the alleged conspiracy
are expected also from Savannah, New
Orleans and other cities as the result
of the examination of Dr. Scheele's
effects. Federal authorities in the.se
cities were today diercted to bceln in
vestigations based on information al
ready at hand that the destruction of
ships had also been attempted in their
jurisdiction.
Five Met Have Confessed.
All except three of the eight men
under arrest have made confessions,
Mr. Wood said. Captain Otto olpert,
superintendent of the Atlas piers oc
the Hamburg-American line, accused
of receiving completed bombs; Captain
Enno Bode, superintendent of the
Hamburg-American line piers at Ho
boken, and Carl Schmidt, chief engi
neer of the interned German liner
Friodrich der Grosse, have refused to
make any statement to the federal au
thorities. Three Men Remain Silent.
The silence of these three men."
Mr. Wood raid, "indicates they are
probably the most important prisoners
of the eight we have arrested."
The five men who ore said to have
revealed their knowledge and a'leged
complicity in the plots are Ernest
Becker, electrician of the Friedrioh der
Grosse: Captain Charles Von Kleist,
superintendent o-f the New Jersey Agri
cultural and Chemical company at
Hoboken, where the explosives are said
to have been placed In the bombs:
Frederick Praedie Carl Paradis and
Charles Karbade assistant engineers on
the steamer.
Movements of Steamships.
Glasgod, April 14. Arrived: steam
ed Tuscania, -New York. ..
New York, April 14. Arrived:
steamer Antonio Lopez. Barcelona.
Gibraltar, April 13. Passed: Steam
er Taormlha. New York for Genoa.
Copenhagen. April 14. Arrived:
Steamer United States. New York.
New York. April 14. Arrived:
Steamer Cedric, (Liverpool.
New York. April 14. Arrived:
Steamer Themlstocles, Piraeus.
Body of Richard Harding Davis Cre
mated. Phi'adelphla, April 14. The body of
Richard Harding Xavis, who died
Tuesday night at his home at Mount
Kisco, N. Y., was cremated here to
day. The ashes will be interred to
morrow beside the grave of his parent
In Leverlnrton cemetery.
Condensed Telegrams
Food riots are reported from sev
eral cities of Rumania.
Lead dealers In New York city re
port a shortage of the metal.
King Georgs of England, who al
ready speaks several languages, is now
studying Russian.
Ths French government will fix by
decrees maximum selling prices of
necessaries of life.
Willis Bell, of Westfield, Me, shot
and porbably fatally wounded his wife
and then killed himself.
England will introduce a bill in
Parliament to prevent the further de
pleltno of the gold reserve.
The Fullgar bill, designed to estab
lish statewide Inhibition, was killed
in the New lork Assembly.
Charter was granted at Dover, Del
to the California Oil Co, of San
Francisco, capital lo.000.000.
Coffee experts of Sao Paulo, Brazil,
estimate this years coffee crop at
from 10,500,000 to 11,000.000 bags.
President Wilson and Henry Morg-
enthau, Ambassador to Turkey, con
ferred on the situalon in the bast
Great Britain's coal output fcr 1915
was Zo3.183.omo tons, a decrease of 12,
500,000 tons from the 1914 production.
After- a lapse of six months, British
army officers cave resumed the pur
chase of horses in the Kansas City
marxet.
A plan to erect a third furnace, to
cost $1,000,000, is under consideration
by the directors of the Detroit L-on &
Steel Co.
British refined sugar purchases in
day are estimated at 25,000 tons by the
Three leaders of the Chinese revolu
tlonaries in Kwang-Tung Province
were assasinated during a mlltary con
ference at Canton.
The weekly statement of the Bank
of France shows decreases of 93.099,-
000 francs In gold ho'dings and of S
411,?00 francs In silver.
Bringing 1,1 CO passengers, th epcan
dnnavian American Liner Frederick
VIII. arrived at New York from Cop-
ennagen ana v;nnstiansana.
Because of the shortage of materials
many manufacturers of steel bars in
Pittsburgh are unable to operate their
plants at desired capacity.
Prcies of steel rails sold on or after
?.!ay 1. will be advanced $5 a ton by
subsidiary companies of the United
States Steel Corporation.
Dr. O. J. Stafford, aged 58, of Port
ChTter, N. Y.. dropped dead at the
sickbed of James Wi'.kins of Fort
Chester, whom he was attending.
Several men were injured In a stone
and suck ngnt Dctween strikln
necro longshoremen and others who
refused to strike in rhi!auelhia.
Director of the Icy-Hot Bottlo Co-
c,-c,r.r"d the uual quarterly div'd?nd
of 3 per cent, on the common stork and
an extra dividend of 10 per cent
Franz Bopo, German Consul General
at San Franciseo. and four others
pleaded net guilty there to indict
ments charging violation of neutrality.
The mm Katahdin, a target for IS
Inch shell fired from the monitor
Ozark, was sunk in Chesapeake Bay,
An attempt to refloat the ship will be
made.
The Standard Oil Co. of New Jer
sey announced thru beginning April
17. wages of employes in all its re
fineries will be increased from 5 to 10
per cent.
After April 24, the Intch govern
ment will permit only brown bread to
be hafced. owing to the insufficiency of
the present grain imports from the
L'nited States.
A bill providing that the United
Ptnte lag must be carrie.l in :iU tr-et
processions except parades of police
: rvl firemen was passed by the New
York Assembly.
There were more marrlaoes In Kng
land snd Wales du-lig 1915 thn there
were on record. Births established a
new low record, and deaths were above
the ten year average.
Orders for 35,0C0,r.CO feet of lum
ber, in the form' of knockdown houses
were plneed by the Ttuslan covern
ment with firms st Seattle, Tacoma,
and eEllingham, Wash.
The steamer Columbia, previously re
ported sinking off Ge.l'oner Llshthlp,
after hitting a mine, arrived at Lon
don. She is carrying 4.S00 tons of
maize from Baltimore to Holland.
Beginning with breakfast yesterday
Germnay's order to all German hotel
and restaurant keepers that they must
reduce the size snd variety of the
meals they serve, went Into effect.
GREAT BRITAIN SETTLES WITH
CHICAGO MEAT PACKERS.
Biggest Case Ever Between United
States and Any Other Country.
London. April 14. S.30 p. m. Final
settl-ment was reached in the Chicago
mea; packers cases today When a
check was handed to Chandler P. An
derson, representing the Armour. Swift,
Hammond and Morris companies, and
Lloyd C. Grlscom. former ambassador
of the United Slates to Italy, for the
amount agreed upon yesterday. The
sum was not disclosed.
Sir EXiward Grey, the British foreign
secretary, received Messrs. Anderson
and Griscom this afternoon, when the
American attorneys expressed najm
appreciation of the courtesy and spirit
of fairness shown by the British offi
cials throughout the long, compUcated
negotiations. They declared the suc
cess in reaching the settlement was
due largely to the patience and broad
mindedness of the British negotiators.
Kit t-Jdward Grey replied:
"I hope the people of America win
accept the friendly settlement of the
packers cases as a further evidence
of the good will of Great Britain tow
ard the United States and of the de
sire of the British government to
maintain its spirit of justice and fair
ness despite all the difficulties and new
problems arising from the condition of
war."
Lawyers here declare that this Is the
biggest case ever up for settlement be
tween the United States and any other
country.
AMERICAN TROOPERS WERE UNARMED
Two of Forty Killed When They Entered Parral, Pre
sumably to Buy Supplies
.
FORTY MEXICANS KILLED WHILE PURSUING THEM
When the Forty .Troopers Retreated From Parral to the Malri
Body of Troops Outside the City, Their Comrades Turn
ed a Machine Gun Upon' the Mexicans Who Were ia
Pursuit Report Comes From Consul Letcher, and While
"Unconfirmed" It is Generdly Credited United Slates
to Treat With Carranza Concerning Request for Whin
drawal of Troops From Mexico In the Meantime Gen
eral Pershing is to Continue Operations.
San Antonio. Texas. April lThe
Americans on whom tho Mexicans .it
Parral fired were unarmed, nceording
to an unconfirmed version of the in
cident current in Chihuahua tod?y
and transmitted to General Funston
today.
Two Troopers Killed.
According to this story forty of the
troopers entered Parral. iiretunnblv
to purchase supplies, and were firtd
upon. Two were killed and the re
mainder retreated to the main body
of the troops encamped outside the
city.
The attacking fori, pursued them
and were met by a fire from the
Americans, who were using a machine
gun. killing forty Mexicans.
According to this Ftory the attack
ing party comprised Carranza soldierj
and civilians.
Report is Credited.
This report of the Parral In-Hent
was sent by Consul LetoliT frm Chi
huahua to General Foil at L'l P-o.
who forwsrded It to General Kunrton.
Full allowance was given by depart
mental officials to Consul Let-hrV
qualifying wcrds "uncon'rmed vertf '
that was current" in Chihinhua, Tr
there was manifested a disposition u
credit the report.
Many of the officers at headiUT-'Ti
here regarded the story of the af-r:r
as more proba.ble than mnu of t.ie
versions which have come out ef
Mexico. It was pointed out that in
previous cases soldiers had entered
towns for the purpose of buying sup
plies and had been receive.! in a
friendly manner by tb- rei-Jent-. a-d
that if they had gone into Pirral for
that purpose, it was possible that
they went unarmed.
Funston Unable to Get Report.
General Funston continued hx ef
forts today to get an official rerv.rt
from Ger.crM Perrhing of the o'-'vir-reree
hut late in the div nr w--.: '
frrm him or nny other oli"r In "v
expedition had been reTh-ed. T.
last be heard from General Por-hln-was
that he wni moving scut' frnn
S;i t prn It nTwumM t hi
Ing officer of the detachment, that
had the Peht at Parral. hail sent hii
report back In the uual manner, f rst
to his colonel, who then would trans
mit it to General Perhfni. who in
turn would have to overcome the di:
flculties of communication by courier
or aeroplane to a wireless station.
Keeping Track of Mexican Troops.
General Funston's orders t oHio-
alonr the line of communication to
guard against attack and to deopv.ch
scnuts to aseTtaln movements of any
body of troops, whether Carranza' or
Villa's, are being rarril out along
the entire line, it Is understood.
Failed to Locate Gomez's Forces.
Lieutenants Gorrell and Dirm In
on aeroplane. peouMng for som tjce
of General Gomez's forces that wre
reported preparirg to move towards
Cans Grandes, faiiej to locate the
troops but did make what is sold to
be a new record In jrrav .aviation, fly
ing S10 miles In four hours and twen
ty minutes. They passed along the
Chlhuahua-Ponera state lire some
distance into the state of Sonora. In
the neighborhood of Pulp'tos Pn?,
but saw rothlng of any troops, not
withstanding a close scrutiny cf tie
covntrv from an elevation at one time
of ".CO feet.
General Gomes was at Ae-ta PrWa.
where he said he wa waitirn- orders
to Join In th pu-nuit of Villa. b:t
some anxiety had been amused hre
bv the dep.ateh a few days bto nf a
force In the d'reetlon f th" American
line of communication. The seir-b
for that and other forces will be con
tinued. Funston Has 19.000 Men.
Just what precautionary steps have
been taken by General Funston to
guard the line and meet nny even
tuality were not revealed. He retir
ed during the day no new instructions
from the war department. It wai ad
mitted here that he has now almost
full authority to use his own Judg
ment In meeting anv situation, even
to sending Into Mexico all of the 11.
001) troops along the border, but the
Incident at Parral has not caus.-d Mm
to alter his opinion that it would t-e
unwise to draw upon that foree for
support of the punitive expeit'on,
leaving unguarded ronton of the
lone International boundary line.
Short of a war measure General
Funston would hesitate to us the
railroad between Chihuahua ar1 t-e
border without authority from Wash
ington and no such authority has ben
given him. It was authoritatively
stated today at his headquarters.
UNITED STATES PREPARED
TO TREAT WITH CARRANZA
But United States Troops Will Con
tinue Pursuit of Villa.
"Washington. April 14. The United
States is prepared to treat with Ron.
era! Carranza. as proposed In his note
of yesterday, for the withdrawal of
American troops from Mezico. Pend
ing the outcome cf the diplomatic ne
gotiations, houever. the status of the
expedition will remain unchanged and
the pursuit of Villa continues. This
was the situation as officially stated
today after President Wilson and his
cabinet had considered the new
phases of the Mexican problem rais
ed by General Carranza s eommuni
cation. Secretary Lansing said he was
prepared to take up the matter with
the de facto government. but wou'd
not Indicate when a reply might be
sent Secretary Baker said no new
orders had been sent to General
lunrton snd that none were under
contemplation.
Uota secretaries said there had been
no change in the policy of the admin-'
is.-rr,!..n which prompted the pursuit
of V ll:a
. Krcm other "ources It was learned
that the success of the Carranza gov-I
em men I in demonstrating its Inten
tion ard ability to continue the pur-'
suit snd extermination of the bandit
fchould American forces be recalled,
would wei?h heavily with President
Si!ft-n in reaching a final decision.
In that connection an official report
from the commander of the American
force cttacked at FarraJ, Mexico, on
last Tuesday by civilians is anxiouslz
awaited.
3C0.CC0 ROUNDS OF 30-30
RIFLE AMMUNITION
Exported to Agua Pricta Under Per
mission of U. S. Government.
rvuc!as. Ariz.. April 14. Three
'ndred thousand rounds of 20-39
ifle ammunition have been exported
io Acua I rirta. ur.rfer permission is
rucd by tho L'nited Stat?s govern -r."rt
to Eli-.ee. Aredondo, de facto run.
..a":u!or In Washington. This was
conf.rmJ today by Mexican Consul
Ives G. L"evier. Tho cartridges had'
been held here for Almost a month.
?;nce the publication t.f the news of
Car-any.a's r.o'e ts the L'nited States
rK4u.-Mt:n the wittu'itwiil of ths punl-
Live iTpfiiunn i rem iielct there has
ben a fe-i:ng ,f unret In Dotiglos
and A'jjja TrioM and I'nitod Metes
Feere rervtje men. the array kthI lo
cal civil o moors constantly -re on th
alert.
MIDNMGHT CONFERENCE
AT WHITE HOUSE
Secretary Baker Eays No Significance
Should Be Attached to It,
Wr.hirr'nn. April 14. Secretary
rakf-r and President Wilson conferral
cn the Mexican situation at midnight.
j-iiier ir.e 'eerc-ary said he still was
withci't oilcial information regarding
the clash at Parral and that no signif
icance could be attached to his Late,
visit to the White House, as he mere
ly had availed the president's return
from the theatre.
The recretrj" said that army avia
tors had flown over sections of Sono
ra. where large bodies of Mexican
i'iers were said to have crossed front
Chihu::hua and had reported that no
tro ps were to be sen. During the
half hour he remained at the White
Houre Mr. linker laid before the presi
dent all despatches on the Mexican
situ-tion received at the war depart
ment after today's cabinet meeting.
There were several linK messages from
General Funston. The secretary said
there was nothing about the clash at
Parral in any of them, but declined to
fvy whothcr they cortained any In
formation on steos General Fvmston
mav have taken to carry out his or
ders to provide for the safety ot th4 '
soldiers in Mexico. MaJ or General
Sootf, chief cf staff, was at the de
partment until after midnight with the
secretary.
Wcnts Punitive Expedition Limited to
1,C?0 Men.
Mexico City. April 14. The Mexican
government will insist with inflexible
determination that any armed expe
dition of the L'nited States which en
ters Mexican territory in the guise of
a punitive cspdiiion must be limitel
to 1.000 men of one service alone, v
alry. according to a statement made
to the Associated Prws today by Juan
NeftaJI Amador, sub-secretary of for-
elgn relations. t
During the absence of General Can
dldo Agullar. minister of foreign re
lations. In Queretaro. Sub-Secretary
Amador is In charge of the foreign
ofice and Is conducting Its course in
international affairs.
DIED OF PCISON AFTER .
" ATTENDING DINNER PARTY
Guest of an Actress in New York
Hostess in Precarious Condition. -
New Tork. April 14. A woman, be-:
lleed by the police to have been Mrs.'
O. F.. Hodge. 29 years old. of Albany,!
dld from the effects of poison early'
today after attending a dinner party 1
bvst night at the apartment of Mrs.'
Margaret Lahah. 23 year old, a nact-re-s.
in this city. Her hostess is re
ported dying of pol-on at a hospltaL!
The poliee have been unable to deter-!
mire the nature of the poison and an
autrpsy was ordtred tonight by Cor-i
oner Feinberg. "
Miss Dorothy Morgan, who was a
ruest at the dinner, told the author!- f
ties thai the woman believed to bare
been Mrs. Hodge, snd who was known"
to her as "Mabel." handed Mrs. Lahah :
a tablet from a pill box labelled "as-,
perin" late tate might when the host-'
ess complained of being ill. '
Mrs. l ahah expected Mrs. Hodr to
arrive from Albany yesterday after-1
noon, the police learned, and went to ;
the Grand Central station to meet ber
but returned to her apartments'
alone. Fifteen minutes later, the wo
man Introduced as "Mabel" to the '
ether guests, arrived In a taxtcab.
Detectives who searched Mrs. La.
bahs. apartment fal'ed to discover anv
trace of poison. They found Jewelry
valued at about IL500 la the room.
