-? TS',, t?1b
"-yT ijmpj
Wrm)F'llJ,lV&l& " '""'"
2Migr
POSTSCRIPT
EDITION
Haunting
POSTSCRIPT
EDITION
bt
VOL. II. NO. 184
I'lIEQADELPIIIA, JSATtTRDAT, APRIL 15, 1010.
CoriniotrT, 1010, rt tub roBMO Ledoek Coupint.
PRICE OKE OJ3NT
"i"1 1fWftIWfWlgRtV-l,ttUJ'rc''"T "yqfg'g-'r
t
t
!
TEUTONS RESUME
ARTILLERY FIGHT
AGAINST HILL 304 1
Germans Bombard -Fiercely
' , Key Position of
y ' IT von nil
REOPEN tfARD FIGHTING,
Joffre's Troops Shell Crow J.
, Wood and Forges in
Reply
TAIUS, April IB.
' A violent bombardment of tlio French
position on Hill 304, northwest of Ver
dun, presaging a renewal of the Infantry
assaults, was carried out by the Germans
yesterday and last night.
The "French War Oinco. In an official
, communique today, staled that tlio ucr-
; u it artillery massed In the region -of
v 't- .'.court kept up a terrific cannonade.
' 1' ' French replied to this firo by
:"S f their big guns against the tier-
..V.ii losltlon In Ools Corbeaux (Crow
"tn -d) 'and In Forges.
A mighty artillery duel thus tle eloped
to the west of tho Mcuse Itlver with hun
dreds of heavy pieces of artillery en
, gaged.
The weather, which has been foggy
with frequent storms, has cleared up, opening-
the way for a resumption of tho
ll hard fighting on the Verdun front.
Tho activities of tho Germans Indicated
that thoy Intended to concentrate all their
energies toward the capture of tho French
key position Hill 304 before making
any further gvat efforts on the right
banc'of tho Meuso with their Infantry.
The text of the official communique fol
lows: . ' "North of Itoyo a Vcconnolssanco ot
the enemy that tried to reach our
trenches In the region of ParvillcrH '
was' dispersed by our fire. There waH
ntrlnfantry action during tho night In
the entire Verdun region.
West of the Sleuse there was a very
lively lioinbardmont of our positions
between Malancourt woods and 11111
, No. 304.
Our batteries were very active on
this part of the front, particularly to
tho west of Corbeaux woods (Ciow
woods) and upon the paths of lift ra
vine of Forges.
To the cast of the Meuse and In the
Woevre region there was an Inter
mittent bombardment.
n the Vosges there -vere some pa
trol engagements. German recon
I nolBsance forces wfcre severely re-i
milsed by Froifch troops tt tlio south
,of tho , height qf .(Jalnle Marie Aux,
' TITANIC.VITH 165tf SOULS,
SAtfK t OUR YEARS AGO TODAY
Rich and Prominent Men, Some PhiR
adelohians, Victims of Disaster
Tour 'years ago today the White Star
liner Titanic, at, that time -the largest
steamship afloat,, sank In mid-Atlantic
after she had struck an Iceberg on the
night of April 14, 1912. Of the approx
imately 2400 souls aboard, only 70S were
saved, although the steamship remained
afloat long enough for removal In small
boats if', there, had been enough of them.
Men famous for wealth, social position,
business and Industrial achievements were
lost. The death list Included John Jacob
AstoT, Major Archibald Butt and William
T,' Stead.
UNNU0V0ATTACC0
A LE M0RT HOMME?
Tedeschi Bombardano da led
la Sanguinante Collina
e la 'Quota 304
. A JVerdun nella glornata dl leri e nella
notte, scomt non Hi ouo avutl die Uuelll dl
artlellerlao che, forse fanno presaglre uu
nuovol attacco delle fanterie tedesclie.
Vartlgllerla tedesca si e' accanlta contro
le pbazlloni dl dlfesa della Quota 301, a
nordovest dl Verdun e flanchegglante ad
pvest la collina dl J.e Mort Homme, e si
attends die qontro l.e Mort. Homme e la.
Quota 304 r vada sferrando 11 nuavo at
tacco. Serobra che 'queste due colllue
slano dlveutate la chlave della gituazlone
a Verdun, perche' 1 tedeschi si accanlscnuo
contro dl esse senza rlguardo a perdlte ed
I frahceal le dlfendono con un vigor vera
mente atraordlnario. ,
(Leggere In 4a paglna altre e plu' det
Ugjiate notlzle Bulla guerra. In Itallano.)
' THE WEATHER
There would teem to be little risk in
predating that today Is a fine clear day,
There, l a healing quality In a high wind
It drives before It the mists and Imper
fections, with the clean certainty of ath
letic enterprise. We watched the beginning-
of this day , jiot at rosy dawn this
morning, but last night Just after sunset
that 'was when today really began. For
- it wjls. the wind that was sweeping the
skies then lathe late twilight that created
this day of radiant blessing. The wind was
whipping across the sky the vague,
hunched animals of defeated cloud dilapi
dated camels, fragmentary lions, disin
tegrating bears and whales. Ogres of
ajprm, they fled before, the swift dogs of
the wind.
So, whle the children slept, the Hound
Of Heaven washed clean and fresh for
(hem the coming day ,
FOlipCAST
fdr Philadelphia nu vhinity
Fair? to nig h t; Sunday increasing
clouaineea probably followed by rain,
bylntyht; moderate variable wind.
" , IftST AND FOUND
'a'AR-Pfof Lot. Tu4y vntDlnr. April It.
lutwecn Hollovu - Stratford VIIroofu and
pvcrbrsok. . crftl diamond and Happhjra
Car nln, mountta la platinum Reward If
r turod tq J CaUwtll & Co. VQ1 Cbcai
nut atroaU "
BOSTpN UULlr luwt p m.. AprU 11, cor.
I$d and Sprue ala amall tloatoa bull.
malt, anawtra to uama of Cbappy XUward.
rteiurir to Stt Plo i
Ota l$t a u J rvad Ad b rata It
Benny Kauff Tells Maxwell in an
SET NEW RECORD
VESSiSS
' .. ....'
Photo by Underwood & Underwood.
Lieutenants Edgar S. Gorrell (right) and Herbert A. Darque yes
terday flew 310 miles without stopping in 4 hours 5 minutes over the
Sierra Madre Mountains to Columbus, N. M. This is declared to
be a record for America.
SLAV ARTILLERY
.RJNEWS ACTION
ON .galiciaIIe
Heavy Pounding of Aus
trian Positions Admitted
by Vienna
BATTLE ON LOWER STRIPA
VIKNNA. April 15.
Austro-Hungarlau positions In Gallcla
have been heavily bombarded by Hus
slau artillery, the War. Qfflce announced
today In an official statement.
Near the mouth of th? owor Strypa
Hlver a battle .developed which Is still
In progress.
Northeast of Jazlowleo the Russians
penetrated the advanced positions of the
Austro-Hungarlans, but were afterwards
ejected.
Following is the text of the. official re
port :
East front Russian artlleryactlve
ly shelled our positions on tho lower
Strypa, on the Dniester River and
northeast of Czernowitz.
Near the south of the lower Strypa,
southeast of Buczacz, sovero combats
developed between the advanced
troops and they are stilt In "progress.
In the southern part tho occupants
of the trenches that formed one of our
salients were withdrawn to tho main
pobltlon.
Northeast of Jazlowleq the enemy
entered one of our nd-anced posi
tions, but was immediately ejected by
a counter-attack. One officer and 10U
men and three ensigns weie captured.
An Austro-Hungarlan detachtpent, by
means' of a surprlbe attack, occupied
a'n advanced position of the Russians
pn the Uuczacz-Czortkow road.
Philippine Officials Resign
MANILA.. P. ! April J6. Jeremiah I
Manning,insular treasurer, and Robert C.
Raldwlu. assjstant Insular treasurer, have
resigned and their resignations have been
accepted They will enter private busi
ness. WEAR BREECHES, CRIES
FEMINIST TO SISTERS
"Don't Be Ashamed of Your
Arms and Legs," Saya
"New Woman"
NEW YORK. April 15. "Don't be
ashamed of your firms and legs. Get ac
ciualnted with them. You ara far more
immodest In evening clothes than you
would be In breeches.''
That argument, backed up by a dem
onstration by Miss Anna lllgglns. turned
the tide and todiy the AmeTtn, Woman's
League for Self-Defense Is decided Jn fa.
vor of adopting the garb of the male sol
diers. Military efficiency for a time teamed
likely to be brushed aside by sentiment.
SIri J. Hungerford Mlllbank. asklni the
assembled women to ponder oil the
thoughts of "contemplative husbands and
sweethearts" as, they gaxed at the skirt
less ladles.
"Dresses belong to (he women of the
last generation." Miss JUgglns countered
"Presses have, been the. curse and the bur
den of women. Com forward and. show
that you have tbe courage to be u. sew
woman."
IN MEXICAN FLIGHT
.U-BOAT BREAK
certain mm
BERLIN YIELDS
Only Complete Satisfaction
of Demands Can Satisfy
Washington
NOTE LIKE ULTIMATUM
WASHINGTON. April IB.
The Ilnal touches are boing put on this
Government's communication to Germany
today. Tho affidavits forwarded here by
American consular agents ,t Paris and
London reached the State Department
last night, nnd early today Secretary
I.iuislns was hard at work going over
them.
Most of the evidence contained in tho.
affidavits had already been sent to the
State Department In summarized form.
The affidavits themselves will bo used as
"exhibits."
Additional information, tending to sup
port that already In the President's hands
on the Sussex and other recent U-boat at
tacks; Is being drawn .up by Lansing for
Incorporation in the President's state
ment to Berlin,
RRKAK IS LIKKLY.
Officials think tho note must result In
a diplomatic break between the United
States and Germany, unless tho latter
agrees to a complete change of submarine
methods.
Officials frankly say that the note ot
necessity will directly Impugn the good
faith of tho German Admiralty In keeping
the promises previously made by Ambas
sador' von IiqrmJtorff. It will make no
threats. It Is explained, neither will it
contain any tlnje limit, but In all. other
respects It will be in the uatuie of an ulti
matum. The communication will recite the cir
cumstances surrounding the Finking of
more, than a score nf merchant vessels ab
solutely without warning. It also will
emphasize the belief of the President and
'his Cabinet that the channel steamship
Sussex was torpedoed by a German nub-
Continued on fate Four, Column Two
HENRY FORD WILL NOT
-RUN FOR PRESIDENCY
Auto Man and Peace Advocate
Denies He Will Organize
Third Party
PBTUOIT, Mich., April 15. "I'm a
business man not a politician. J have
no political ambitions, Under no condi
tion would I consent to run for the Presi
dency." i '
This was Henry Ford's statement here
today in response to persistent reports
that he would organize a third political
party and run for President oh a peace
platform. Jle refused to comment In any
way on reports of political activities by
his lieutenants.
Berlin Hears of Irish Riots
BERLIN. April 15. Advices received
from Amsterdam by the Overseas News
Agency state that political riots in Ire
land have extended and that street fight
ing has occurred at several pvlnts long
the coast The British military author
ities are reported to have taken control
at various places and to have suppressed
more. Irish newspapers.
Exclusive Interview That Ty Cobb
U. S. TROOPS AND MEXICANS
CLASH AGAIN NEAR PARRAL
IS REPORT; CHASE CONTINUES
Pershing's Forces Drive Southward
Disarming Mexicans and Confis
cating Arms Regardless of
' Request for Withdrawal
I WASHINGTON, April 15. Consul Marion Lclclicr, al Chihuahua, today
I reported to the State Department that the Chihuahua newspapers jjavr an
unlmpnssioned account of the Parral ili'liting HayitiK one American soldier
was killed, hut failing to state the Mexican casualties.
El Paso reports today stale thnt Amcricnnforcca sent into Mexico to
Kct Pancho Villa npain Imvc clashed with Mexicans near Parral. Some
Americans are reported killed.
The troops arc drivin.fr southward, abandoning somewhat their erstwhile
politeness toward Carrauzistns nnd Mexicans Kcncrally, for dispntches say,
the ate disarming tho natives as they proceed and conliscutiug their arms!
This is a precaution against such attacks as occurred at Parral Wednesday.
(icncral Funston is "sticking to the job," ignoring diplomatic negotia
tions for the proposed withdrawal of the expeditionary forces. In fnct, the
commander is strengthening his lines, rushing added supplies, indicating an
even more vigorous pursuit of the outlaw bands.
Washington is willing to "treat" with Carrnnsiu on his demands for
evacuation of Mexico, of course, but there bus been no intimation that tho
expedition would be abnndoned. "Treating" will consume some time.
General Pershing is said to have moved his Held base southward, prob
ably in the vicinity of Parral. Advanced troops aro reported in tho State of
Durango.
Tho massing of Carranzista forces under General Gomez gave Wash
ington some uneasiness. Two American aviators left Columbus again today
to watch these movements.
PEKSHIXti DRIVES SOUTHWARD, J
DISARMING ALL MEXICANS J
KL PASO, April ID Reports that an-
other light had taken place between Unit
ed States troops and Mexicans In the vl- i
cinlty of Parral, In which Koine Amerl- I
cans were killed, wcio circulated hero but
inVo,1 rniitlrmnlliin. I I'.irrill Is In the
southern part of Clilhunhua, 123 miles
jiouth ot Chihuahua City nnd 30 miles
from the border of Durango.)
General Pershing Is Btrcngthcnlnp; the
defenses of tho lines of communication
In Mexico, and at the same time many
more machine guns and thousands of ad
ditional rounds ot ammunition went over
the border today for tho United States
Tho American military units In Mexico j
aro now salU to uo luuy prepuruu mi ""
emergency that the diplomatic parlcyii bo-v
tweh First Chief Vcmjstlnno Cnrranza
and Secretary1 ot State Lan'slng may brlmi
Auto truck g"uard"cd wlh machine gun
and convoyed by cavalry arc rolling across
tho hdt-der from CdlUtnbun. N, Mr-lHed
iilgh with supplies of all kinds.
Tho bnso of tho United States punitive
expedition I bclnff moved southward, ac
cording to a code message received here.
It stated that tho now base (tho location
Contluiiril on I'ne Five. Column One
SECOND BRYNMAWR
GIRL BECOMES BRIDE
BY 'CONTRACT' FORM
Anne Page, 2d, and R. L. Wolf,
Harvard Graduate, Joined in
"Partnership" Bond as Most
Satisfactory Domestic
Arrangement
LAW AND LOVE IN UNION
The second contract marriage with a
Bryn Jlawr girl na one of the contracting
parties excited more than an ordinary
.... .. ti, nr,iin T.lnn Krhoal today.
lllieiuab v mw ...,.. .... -
when news of the marriage became known.
The "contract orine wm .mos, n"i
Page, Sd, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Oooreo
II. Page, of liiookllne, Mass., a Bryn
Jlawr student in 1010-12. She Is Pretty.
.. .. 1.naa..,r.ia l, n Mfl ft Rll ffritZlbt. TO
day weeg ngo she signed a marriage
contract In Sew York with Robert Leopold
Wolf, of Cleveland, a Harvard graduate.
The papers were filed yeMcrday In the
New York County Cleik's office.
The unique form of marriage rHUlted
from the poclologlcal htudlea made by the
bridegroom apd bride. Miss Page, who
Is a graduato of Itadcliffo College, met
Wolf while the two were Btiidylng In
Cambridge. Ty leraned that there aro
four forms of marriage ceremonies: by a
clergyman or a leader of tho Society for
Hthlcal Culture; by a mayor, recorder,
alderman or magistrate; by a Jubilee or
a Judge, or by means of aw rltten con
tract. The last-named, which places the
wife In the position of "partner" ot her
husband, fa&elnated them and they de
cided that their marriage was to be per
formed In this manner.
By a strange coincidence the game cler
gyman who performed the religious mar
riage cctemopy. which followed the civil
marriage of the first Bryn Mawr girl to
sign a marriage contract, played an Im
portant part In the wedding of Miss Page,
whose uncle l. He Is the Rev. Percy
Stlckney Grant, rector of the Church of
the Ascension', New York. When Justice.
Edward B, La Fetra, of the New York
City Court, demurred oyer issuing a li
cense for the contract marriage the clergy
man was called on the telephone. He
assured the Justice that the marriage was
"all right."
One clause In the contract reads: "We
promise faithfully to perform to the com
munity all the duties of marriage neces
sary to Its welfare."
The bridegroom Is the son of p. J. Wolf
and Is connected with the American Tele
phone and Telegraph Company. The
bride's family Is very prominent Her
mother, Mrs. Maryllutcheson Page. U a
leading suffrage worker In Massachusetts
and former president of the Massachu
setts Enuaj Franchise Society.
BrynWawr's first "contract"' bride is
the Countess Starzenskl, who was Miss
Hilda Sprague Smith. She married
Count Victor Starzenskl, grandson of the
Polish patriot of the same name. Novem
ber 1, 1915 This contract marriage, also
signed In New' York, was followed by an
elaborate ceremony In the Kev Dr.
Grant's church. Miss Smith was gnid-
BURNED AT STAKE,
THEN BEHEADED BY
FANATICAL TURKS
Dr. Joseph Shimoon, Jefferson
Medical Graduate, Put -to
Death for Refusing to Re
nounce Christian Religion
WAS PERSIAN BY 'BIRTH
jX.lJifJ'.-AV.
DR. JOSEPH SHIMOON
Reports of the burning ut tho atulto
and the beheading of a former Philadel
phia!!, Dr. Joseph Shimoon, class of 1903,
Jefferson Medical College, and communi
cant of St. Stephen's Church, n medical
missionary in Persia, have been received
by the Montana Churchman, a Protestant
Episcopal publication. The icport gives
no date, and it Is not known here when
the man was put to death.
The Churchman says tho doctor was
martyred by Turks, who seized him nt
I'rnii. Persia, and tried to compel him to
nclcnow ledgo Islam.
"SoUed by TutkH, Doctor Shimoon was
offered his life and a place as surgeon In
their army if he would profess Islam,"
nccordlng to the, dispatch, "He answered:
'I cannot do that, because I am a Chris
tian.' They thou Hiturated his clothing
with oil. told him they would giio him
one inoro clianco, saylrtgr 'Acknowledge
Mohammed to be your prophet,' He re
plied: 'Jesus Is my Saviour.' They then
pet him on lire, burned him to death and
cut off his hedd."
Doctor Shimoon was a Persian by birth,
who came to this country from Oroomlab
for his education, accoiding to men who
were guuluated with him at Jefferson.
Some say they think he was a naturalized
American citizen, but were not sure ot
this. The college records show that wjter:
he was a student ho. jived at H 5 South
1 5th street. The woman, who lived at
that number when he was a student, was
named Wallace. She Is dead. Neighbors
questioned this morning remember (hat
Mrs. Wallace lived there and that she had
roomers, but they do not remember the
medical student from Persia.
Dr.' Alfred Helneberg. 1612 Pine street,
and Dr. John Edward Beardslesr, of the
class of 1902. now a member of (he medi
cal staff of the Jefferson Medical College,
remembered Joseph Shlmoo well, and spoke
with' real feeling when they heard of the
fate of their former classmate.
The Jefferson Medical College annual,
the Ganglion, of 1902. contains a clever
sketch of Joseph Shimoon, It Is tho pres
entation speech made by William Wondo
Fitzpatrick. Paris. Tex. He says:
"It would take ac hour to tell all about
our friend from the Orient He Is famous
for veracity, pugnacity and capacity. Be
fore commencing the study of medicine he
was vice president of the pickle trust and
a manufacturer qf 'Bumgudeons.' and (the
Chief Ausgektckt to bis Royat Highness,
th 6ola Oola, of Persia "
' -(rjJfiCS 7tffiBKd.
ggy&. ..x
Is the World's Greatest Baseball Player; On Page 11
QUICK
FOUR INJURED IN FIRE5 OTHERS TRAPPED
BINGHAMTON, N. Y., April IB. Four persons were Injured
and severn.1 four-story business nnd tenement buildings destroyed by
fire here totlny. Several persons, It is fenred, nre trapped In the upper
stories of the buildings still burning. The fire Is of unknown origin.
r
SENATE RATIFIES PLAN TO FEDERALIZE NATIONAL GUARD
WASHINGTON, April 15. The Senate; by a vote of 33 to 23,
today adopted Senator Wadsworth's plau for federalizing the National "
Guaid by. requiring guardsmcu to take a double oath ou enlistment,
ouo to tbc State and ouc to tlic Federal guard.
PRICE OF GLASS TAHLEWARE GOES UP WITH WAGES
PITTSBURGH. April 1G. Tho price ot qlnss lublowaro has been advanced 10
per cent. Tho glass workers will nslc another ndvunco In wiircs ami, If It Is
granted, a futthcr rise in glnss prices will ho made.
POLICEMAN USED AS DIVER TO RECOVER RING
A $300 diamond ring lay In the mud nnd rubbish nt tho bottom of an Inlet at
the corner of RittcuhuUHe street and Qcrinuntuwn riven uo all night. District De
tective Corry acted ns diver today when grappling hooka failed to rescue, the ring.
Ho was lowered Into the opening and soon found It. Tho ring wuh the property of
R. L. Ambler, IWlD Wlasahlokon avenue, who dropped It when ho pulled oil bin
glove there last night. Ho saw It roll into tho Inlet.
WOMAN TRIES TO KILL LIEBKNECHT
THK HAOUIJ, Apt II in. News of un attempt by a woman to nssasslnnte Dr.
Karl Llchknccht, tho Socialist lender" In tho German Reichstag, was brought hero
today by travelcro from Berlin. Two shots were llrcd, both of which missed. Tho
woman was arrested, but tho German papers wcro forbidden to publish tho
Incident.
BRITISH VESSEL SUNK BY MINE f
I-ONDON, April ID. Tho I'rltlsh steamship Shenandoah lis been sunk by
a mine, with the loss of two members of her crow. Tho captain and tho remainder
of the crew were landed today. Tho Shenandoah, a vessel of 38SC tons, hailed from
J,lverpool. She sank In 12 fathoms of water.
DERBY DEFENDS CALLING HUSBANDS TO COLORS
LONDON, April 1C. Loid Derby, Director of ItccrultlnR, presided yester
day at a meeting of tho Association of Municipal Corporations, Keplylng to a
demand that all single men be enlisted before, the married men are called, ho
said ho did not believe anything could bo more foolish. To do so, ho added, would
have saved him trouble and would have brought his task to u spqedlcr eiid, but
such a step would havo been absolutely ruinous to 'the Industries of (ha country.
BRITAIN DRIVES DOWN PRICE OF GRAIN TO ALLIES
HUElsOS A-inESj 'April ID. Argentine jjrowers of grain, who reckoned on
wac rincea flnu large profits, havo been grievously disappointed, Tho
Ot Great Britain ai)d her allies' ardirtuallyHhq5on,IymeilpentQ
proaucor ana having.jreauJiscdr.-a-fr6IosHal ,rcOrnorJrcatJWtaillhr-,'
tho granary and storehouse of the group.
for an. uy thus doing away with competition between themselves, the MWH
aro In a position to dlctato prices rather than havo prices dictated to them.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN DIED 51 YEARS AGO TODAY
Abraham Lincoln died 51 years ago today. On April 15, 1865, ho succumbed
to tho effects of tho shot llrcd tho rjlght beforo In F.ord's Theatre by John Wilkes
Booth, who slipped up behind the President nnd fired a bullet Into his head. Tho
60th anniversary of Lincoln's death was celebrated widely last year. Iresldent
Wilson Issued an ofliclnl proclamation ordering flags on Government buildings,
naval vessels and at army ijosts displayed at half-mast. Tho bell on Independence
Hall was tolled 50 times In accordanco with tho proclamation issued by Mayor
Blankcnburg.
CANADIANS URGE CONSCRIPTION UPON PREMIER
OTTAWA, April 15. National registration, with n view to soma form of
conscription, was urged on Premier Borden and members of his Cabinet yester
day by a delegation representing 42 recruiting leagues of Ontario, the majltlmo
provinces and the west. Thoy told the Premier tho present voluntary system
was not getting enough men, and that those who were coming forward wora
the ones whom Canada could least spare. The Premier reminded tho delegation
that men wero coming forward at tho rato of 1000 a day.
BALTIC ENTRANCE CLOSED WITH NETS BY GERMANY
COPENHAGEN, April 15. Tho Norwegian Shipping Gazette says tho Ger-i
man navy has: stopped tho international passageway to south of tho sound (tho
strait between Denmark and Sweden), not merely by tho usual mine obstruc
tions, but also by steel nets designed to trap British submarines seeking to enter
tho Baltic. Danish torpedoboats, says tho Shipping Gazette, are watching tho
operations to mako suro that obstructions aro not placed In Danish territorial
waters.
KAISER'S AVIATORS ATTEMPT TO KILL CZAR FAILS
LONDON, April 15. News of an attempt ou the life of the Czar by Alia.
tro-German aviators hua readied here. Learning that tho Czar was revlowlnc
his troops ai Ivuntz, on tho Dniester, two Teuton aeroplanes sot forth with7:
supply of b.--bs. Whri ;ho machines reached Khotln, aciosa tho Dniester from
Ivantz, Russ'nn machines ascended to meet them. A furious: battle In the air
followed, In tho course of which tho Russian aviators foiced ono of tho hostile
planes to retire. Tho other nvjator managed to get past,. Soaring across ths
Dniester, he descended tu lower altitudes above Ivantz nnd succeeded In drooping
his sloro ot lioniba. Petrogrnd reports that only a sentinel wus injured.
PANAMA CANAL REOPENING SCHEDULED FOR TODAY
WASHINGTON, Apt 11 15. Tho Panama Canal, clobed to commerce since)
September 18, by slides, Is scheduled to ho leoponed: today. Wur Department
'jTlciala bald last night that no word had come of a'cliango Jn the plans, and It
was assumed that ships would begin passing through nccordlng to program.
Many vessels aro reported at both ends of Jhe canal awaiting the reopening.
THREE (STRIKE AGITATORS JAILED IN SCOTLAND
EDINBURGH, Apiil 15. Sentences have been imposed on, three men for
the publication of cedltous articles in connection with tho rooaiit fetuko at
munitions workers on the Clyde. William Gallagher and Jyhn W. Muir were
sentenced to 12 months. In prison. Walter Bell was given a term of three,
months. .
REPORT $300,000 COMPROMISE ON MILLION-DOLLAR SUIT
Jt Is understood that $300,000 Is the sum on which the s,ult of Edward B.
Smith & Co. against Worth Brothers, of CoateavlUe, has been eompromlsed. Tim
bankers sued for a commission on the 'sale of the Coatesville Rolling Mills, and
Worth Brothers' Company plants to the MIdvale "Stel and Ordnance Company,
on the ground that they engineered the deal, Wpti Brothers avarrnd that the.
Bale was consummated solely through their own efforts.
BATTLESHIPS BACK FROM TARGET PRACTICE
Te battleships South Carolina, Michigan and Kansas havo anlved at tho
League Island. Navy Yard from Quantanamo By. Cuba, whwe they wero re
centl engaged in target practice. Only tho South. Carolina dpeked. The othei s
remained In midstream. The South Carolina shQwji no effects pt thr 5juaUm
with the Michigan, which Iiappened while tho vessels were proceeding northward.
Jt was said a few plates nre dented. The Mlehltfan vvill have new guns Installed;
In the forward turret. The old scout cruiser Chlcaso la expected at the Nswf
Yard today. She will be used as a training ship for naval wiutlu
NEWS
inarkqts
Argentina -
btsot
"Sho buys for'ali. carries for tut utiyp
