BERLIN WILL GO LIMIT TO AVERT BREAK WITH U. S
WEATHER Fair to-nlght 8undy chudy and wrmr. H
EDITION
"Circulation Books Open to All,'
I, " Circulation nooks Open to All."
PRICE ONE CENT.
Copjrlihl, 11)10, lr TIip l-rroaM'iiMUhlna
('. (The Ntf York World).
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, APRIL 15, 1916.
12 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
FINAL
fMML
JU
TROOPS CLASH AGAIN AT PARRAL;
GEN. PERSHING IS STILL SILENT
GERMANY IS ALARMEDM GIVES LIFE
OVER SUSSEX CASE
Hollweg and Gerard Have
Conferences and New Instruc
tions Are Sent to BernstorlT.
LANSING WRITES NOTE.
Sixty-five Violations of U-Boat
Pledges Are Charged by the
United States.
LONDON. April 15. The corre
spondent nt Tho Haguo of tlio K
change Telegraph Company forwards
th following:
"Considerable perturbation lias
been caused nt the Herlln Foreign
' Office by nev rccclvotl by wireless of
American dissatisfaction with the re
cent German note. Tho Chancellor
had several conferences "1th the
American Ambassador and also dis
cuwed. possibilities with Count von
Uurian, Austro-Huugarlan Foreign
Minister, who Is now In llerlin. Long
Instructions were sent to Ambassador
von Bornstorff at Washington.
"German olllcialdom now seems
willing to strain every nervo In order
to Avoid u ruptuio with the United
States, while tho picss continues In
a most flamboyant way to (five advice
to President Wilson, publishing
vicious articles and cartoons of tho
President."
U-BOAT PLEDGE 1)110 KEN
5 TIMES, LANSING WILL
DECLARE IN NEW NOTE
WASHINGTON, April 15. In tho
note which Is being piepared for for
warding to Herlln Germany will bo
Recused In nlxty-flvo counts of vio
lating tho lawn of humanity and
pledges to tho United Stutes In tho
warfare by submarines on commerce
hlps. Secretary Lansing worked
diligently to-day on tho finishing
touches of tho document, and there
wero many Indications that It would
be on its way to Herlln not later
thtn Monday,
Thn KuKsn affidavits brought on
the St. Paul wero tinned over to Sec
retary Lansing to-day. Might pouches
of mall brought by that vessel were
distributed at thn Slato Ucpai tmcnt.
The President kept In touch with
Secretary Lansing during tho day and
was informed uf thn contents of tho
atlidavllH received on the St. I'.iul.
Senator Stone, Chairman of the
Senate Committee, suggested to Secre
tary IinsIng to-day that It would In.
well to h.ivn Itepubllciiii as well as
liemncruiio nn iiiIk'I's of llm i'ni
inltteo In tho proposed eonfeicnco
JUl.llllg agi'i i-d
U-IIOAT TO li I' EDO ED
SUSSEX. BRITAIN
OFFICIALLY CHARGES.
LONDON, April l.Y iorniany's mite
, , ,
to the I nited Mates, reporting n kiiIi.
mnr.no attack .... an unldentllled
steamer in thu channel, leae.s no
further doubt that tho Sussex was
, , , , .H . i . . .
torpedoed, said an olllclul slat, nient
Issued by tho Foreign Otllre this uf -
ternoon.
Tho Foreign Office de.'lare.l the I'.
loat coiiiliiandir'.- report lh.it he
thought thn nhip nttn.'Ue.l uiih onn of
the. now inine-l.n "i i of the Autljl.
typo was an tinjasi ilie I plea to i h
ccape responHlhlllty. The Sius?i in
no way resembled vcssuls of tho A I'd
blc class, it waa stated.
Roosevelt, World Peacemaker
This Is the Niche in Temple
of Fame He Hopes to Fill
To bo known In history as the world's greatest peacemaker is the
ambition ngw ascribed to Col. Roosevelt.
Ills board of strategy, headed by George W. Perkins, is confident
that tho Colonel has tho Republican nomination practically within graap.
They are troubled by but one hurdle. That Is the widespread public
opinion that the Colonel favors war more than peao.
Conferences are being held to dctcrmlno what kind of a declnratloi
tho candidate must make to clear up this impression tmd to win tho
great mass of people who are not peace-at-any-prlce advocates, but "want
to keep out of war." It Is officially announced that an utterance meeting
this situation may be expected toon.
Meantime the Colonel's personal friends are circulating the follow
lng report:
Mr. Huosevclt docs not desire to be elected President for the
sake of merely occupying the White House uialn. He seeks the
pUue because he believes it iclll afford the opportunity and give him
the (jjlctal status necessary to bring about an end to tho European
wiir.
Defeating Mr. Wilson is a domestic Ifbuo. Settling the war Is n
world Issue, and to accomplish this latter task Is the Colonel's highest
ambition. He wishes his name to llvo In history as having accomplished
the greatest benefit any man ever conferred upon civilized nations.
The inspiration of this ambition comos from the Husslau-Japaitcse
war, which Col. Hoosovelt helped bring to nn end by Uie peace conference
at Portsmouth. He believes that in the commanding otllclal position of
President of the greatest neutral nation, reinforced by the prestige of
his peace of Portsmouth unci his personal relations with tho
leaders of the world war on all sides, lie would be able to bring about a
settlement of the contest.
Ilooso-vo.lt, tho world peacemaker, hU friends suy, would live in his
tory as greater than any world warrior, and this niche In tho Temple of
Fame is the one he seeks.
"SUBMARINE INSANITY"
IS BLAMED FOR ATTACKS
Spanisli Kxpert Declares Crews
Grow Mentally Irresponsible Prom
Foul Air anJ Uncooked Food.
MADRID. April 15. "Submarine
Insanity," a queer form of dementia
that attacks men long confined In
crowdi'd quarters, lends German V
boat crews to commit reckless nt-
tacks on passenger whips and neutral
vessels, ix Spanish specialist declared
to- lay.
ltreuthlng tho foul air Inside the
lJ-bo.it hulls, living on uncooked food
and pursued at nil times by thoughts
of disaster, the submarine Command
ers grow menially irresponsible for
short periods, ho held.
This tli.oty was evoked by editorial
commentH on tho death of thn Span-
ish composer Enrique Granados and
other Kpanlards who wero uboard the
Sussex.
FIVE HURT IN CAR CRASH.
i ('rmmton n Trulle? Collides Willi
Voollirr After .liiinplnu Truck,
riv
panM-iiKer on at. eiimli.mnd
inn Hundred and Forty-ninth Street
, erimftow n MirfniM our were Injuied
! to-day when the ear Jumped thu track
Juki west or Lenox Avenue and
crashed Into ii westbound ear.
The Injured Hre Annie I'lirnt of No.
' nr. I llrook Avenue, bruises uf the
. left leu. John Slier, n sjiIckiiiiiii, of
.so. Pill Am-u r.lam Avenue. ilhle
, X ZX""
I dre.l :nnd Forly-eigl.t Sti. et Jacein.
'tlOK or the left lll: Fleilerlek illi-
mien, a bin tender, of N'o, TV Wem
. NllO'li -fourth Street, cuts on the lert
py,.. .Vdei je Killing, a inccniiiilc
,of No Vem one Hundred ml
! I'm iy ninth Street.
I let eliillilii III. J I. oil itm. .III.,
i'I.kviw.and. i. Anr.r i:..- Hn.v. r '
l.inol. rinllK lietrml Tin' r pitebei
'i.h ni 1 1 ha-ed till .'ifti'.'.ioon lii tin
iMi'M land lii'luiii lluglili . I -1 1 1 1 1 . i u
I ml anil' d waiver-, on l,otiiei inillt In -ruiifi'
he wnlkeil ihiee nun III a row I
in yusicnluy'8 game with thu Wliltu
box.
"MOVIE QUEEN" STAGES
THRILLER IN MID-AIR
Pearl White Swings From Roof to
Paint Initials Twenty Stories
Above Crowd.
Pearl White, a movie "queen,"
turned loosn a mld-nlr thriller this
morning when (die painted her ini
tials twenty stories high on a wall
on Seventh Avenue nt Forty-ninth
Htroot,
ah a press agent siunt it was a
winner and as an net of daring it
held thousands of spectators spell
bound. The building Is to lie occu
pied by movie picture concerns when
completed,
Miss White, attired In i flinnel
I "hlrt and a khaki stilt, adorned with ,i
"Notes for Women' so!i, climbed
1 'rom the roof to a great dectru s.gn
, nd shinned down It 30 fe.-t, Fn.pi
' the bottom of the sign she slid down
a rope to a ncafTold where p.tlnturs
were at work and painted "r. W." lu
white letters four feet high.
When she finished Miss White m.ide
n bow In the crowd below and climbed
, h.pU .... ..... -..,, ... roil.
All of which was dono to call the
public's attention to tho Mo' nn Pic
ture Kposttlon In M.idlson Squuic
Garden fiom May ; to May 13,
GERMAN TORPEDO BOAT
REPORTED DAMAGED
Ldiuluu lieliee- the War Craft Was
llu iviim uf HritMi
Suhniarine
MiN'DDN. Ajinl I', w ai.'in.-y
.1. splil' ll) n It.'.n ropi'tlliaKell quote
the lapi.ntiM of ' ..I wkm-Im that a
1 1 . 1 ' v 'latn.igeil (iiM'iiian tnrpe.ln luiat
w.iB seui passing ufl M-Uinglioigo
It Is Mild to have Usc.ii tho victim of
u. British aubmarln.
i
TO SAVE WOMAN
FROM FiRE PERIL
Girl Widow of Collins Pays
With Sorrow for His Brave
Attempted Rescue.
CROWD SEES HIM FALL.
Seeking to Carry Aged Woman'
Down Hre Escape, He
Plunges to Death.
A widow, a girl In the early twen
ties, beautiful and, until last night,
happy and contented In all that a
perfect love can bring, calls In vain
to-day for her hero husband, Ken
neth C. Collins, In their apartment at
No. 226 West Klghtleth Street, while
Mrs. Sarah Ludwlg, aged nnd gray,
wiom ho gave his llfo to save, is re-
cclvlng tho congratulations of her ,
friends on her escapo from death t
timid flames.
Collins was thirty years old. He '
was a member of Squadron A, First
Cavalry lleglmcnt, N. O. N. Y.. and
otio of tho most daring riders In his
troop. Ho rodo three horses liaie
l.ack and was an adept in their hand
ling. Ho was an all-around athloto
ana always in utu nc.ii in ikijah.u
condition.
I-ast night, whllo on lus a to
keep an engagement with his brother,
Dr. William M. Collins, at thn Itonta
, Nnrragansntt, llroa.lway and .Nn!"ty
I fourth Streot. Cojllns naw a tiro at
Nos. 4.13-457 AniMterdam Avenue
Through rifts In tho clouds of
smoko injuring out of tho burning
buildings he saw a woman hanging
over iv flro escapo on thn third
lloor making piteous apials to
thn gathering crowds in thu streot.
Collins elliowed his way, fought,
pushod nnd crushed through thn
crowds and In a moment was cwal
lowed In tho smoke forced down from
tho stories abov.
All eyes wero on the woman and
tho crowd rrled to her not to Jump.
Then n mighty cheer went up as a
young man, natty and well dressed,
a snilhi on his smokn-stnutied face,
suddenly appeared, put an arm around
tho frlghtenwd woman' and easily lift
ed her on to tho flro escape. He car
ried her down to tho nxt landing, de
posited her safely and t;. i sought to
loosen tho flro escapo ladder to the
street. In somo way he lost his bal
ance and plunged to tho sidewalk
Policemen and firemen cleared a
way to tho fallen mmi and n doctor
was called. Other firemen went to
tho assistance of thn liysterle.il
woman above and brought her to thn
groutidunhnrmed.
Collins was hurried to tho Knicker
bocker Hospital. His wife, who had
been waiting his arrlxal for dinner,
waa summoned, as were Ii brother
and his stepmother. Hut i 'oil. lis never
regained conscloiibness. His skull had
been fractured nnd his collarbone
broken. At 10.30 o'chn-k hn died
Mr. Collins waa born in Olean, N
V., and educated at Trinity College
In this city, afterward being gradu
ated from Columbia, class of 'M lie
was cla.ss prLHldent in his frea.inlan
year, a fraternity man ;inl manager
if thn li.ihuli.ill club. I.ddie Collins
being tit" ('upturn II" was President
of thu Collins A: Aiktiiun Company
plush manufacturers, No. ir. Fifth
Avenue. In 1'.'12 no married .Mrs. lis
tello Hums Itoure 111 Tl'r, Tex., a
soprano sitiycr often le ard In con
ini't. Iliisaliui llrneriil limit.
I.ijMiiiN'. Aim'II t'. lien I'Ii'Iivk, re
lllic.l, foinifi Coiiiiii.ii.il.ii In I'aief ut tliu
I ItuiMiin Nortliein Ainu, is 'lead m Mu.
Icuw, acvotUliiU lu lu.ul Ji;pdti;hc re
ceived her.
HERO WHO LOST LIFE
TRYING TO SAVE AGED
WOMAN FROM FLAMES.
rCE.NNE.TH C-COT-.1UN3.
. .
ALL IRK CEASES
I
Company Is Said to Be Seeking
Strikebreaking Engineers
Out of Town.
Without warning or enpi.initlon.
thn work of the Holbrook, Cabot ft
llolllns Corporation on the tiutnvay
excavations, at Clinton and fiouth
StreetH and Hrnadway ant Forty
fourth Ktreet, was stopped In every
department to-day. Olllcers of the
concern refused to discuss the shut
down. Chief Knglneer Clatfc Is out of
town, and It Is Maid he Is Keeking
licensed engineers from other cities
to man the hoisting engines.
Tho engineers of other contractors
say the Holbrook Company, for some
tlm to come, Is compelled to uso more
hoists nnd cranes nn the. Brnadwny
work than the contractors of any other
section, and tho company Is particu
larly at tho mercy of the engineers.
Chief Hnglnvcr Atigoll, ()f the
Frederick I.. Cranford Company,
which Is digging the subway sections
around the 1'idiral Itulldlng, said all
tlio contractors wero ready and will
lng to conceiln the i:-a-day rato for
unskilled labor. Hut tho unions, he
said, demanded a dollar a day In
i reaso for timber men and other part
ly (.killed workers, and tho contract
ors, who are paying for such work at
the rato of from 12. "5 to l..'u. say they
mniii't ulfi.nl to spend the money. It
would bankrupt every contractor, Mr.
Angell said.
"There Is llo prospect of an agten
inrnt and an end of tho strike." Mr.
Angell said, "until tho union men can
be inaile to understand this and also
that we i annul very will r'. ognle
a union of unskilled laborers. Much
a union, as in the pi.tant Instance,
put h the contractors ai tin nu rey of
the hoisting engineers and the tim
bermen nnd others."
At th olllies of the I'llbln Ser Ice
('oiniiiiHsloii it huh mii !il t'lriiriuan
Straus felt lie had gone as far in his
effort to bring alio. H arbitration as
he ought to go at pn-sent md that he
Ntood firm on the ground lu took at a
I'onfoli'tien with i In- rontr.o mrs thn
oilier day, rflien he told .Major
H'ltoitrke ot the Flitin O'li'.urke I'oie
pa there was ti- win in whi'h Hie
Midway contractu could lie alteteii i,
ri'ltiibiirpi' ! ai t ru 1 1 ot's for a
clinngn in hi pievaillng nito uf
wanes wbllg tin ''olitract was in
forct.
ON THE BROADWAY
SUBWAY
UNNELS
FOUND MURDERED ... j,,,,.. nm mmr
IN ALBANY woods IN MM CITY, WHERE
"Black Dogs" Had Demanded
$5,000 for Return of Billy
Clark, Long Missing.
NET OUT FOR SLAVER.
Coroner Believes Child, Whose
Neck Was Broken, Was
Victim of Degenerate.
SlKvUt tn TV Knln WorM )
AI.IIANV, April IS. An examina
tion of thn body of eight-year-old
Wily Clark, which was found In a
patch of woods noar tills city to-day,
after hn had been missing slnco Mnrch
2.1, resulted In a Coroner's verdict
thnt tho lud had bistn murdered.
After an autopsy hud been per
formed on the body of the child the
Coroner's verdict showed that the
hoy died an the result of a broken
neck Indicted by a blow.
"I am of (he opinion that the body
was tho victim of n degenerate per
son," Coroner Hastings said.
F.xtia details of pollen were set at
work on the cas as soon as tin, vei
dlet was announced.
Special efforts will be m.mle to trace
the writer of n letter signed "Tho
Ithick Dogs." sent siiine days ago to 1
Mrs. John .1. Shea, tho boy's aunt,
with whom h" lived, demanding $.1,00(1
for tb boy's return.
A botanist of the State Agricultural
Hepartment collecting specimens In
tlie swamp near the waterworks oamo
upon a boy'x overcoat and Jacket yes- '
tenia y afternoon. Thesn were turned '
over to the police, and were at nncn f
Identified as garments corresponding j
to the description of Wily Clark's
clothing lu thn circular advertising
his disappearance.
A squad of mounted policemen was
iietit nut to search nil tho country
In that vicinity lit daybreak to
day. At 9 o'clock one of thorn found
thn youngster's body, partly dressed
and lying In a shallow pool of water.
Illlly was nbuut to enter a moving
plcturi. theutro with his sister when
hi. was Inst seen. Shu had released
his hand to buy their tickets. When
shn turned nbout with tho tickets sho
could find no trace of him. When ho
did not return homo tlio pollen wero
notified.
Tim boy's mother being dead, his
father had given him In earn of his
iiuivf, with whom hn hud llvd soul"
time. It was thought probably thn
father had met thn bay and taken
him off, but this the man denied.
Mrs. Shea, with thn aid of friend",
offored ISO' reward for thn lad's re.
covery and llm Improvement Society
offered another IVi'i.
Hoy Scouts undertook an organized
search of thn tuiintiy west of the
city, where there wero reports that a
boy of his ago hnd been seen In tho
company of persons who wero ap
parently strangers to him. Thny
combed over tho very iielghbot huod
when, til" body was found. A 1 1. Hug
club of fasliiotinbl.i ouug women
also patrolled successive ones for ten
miles around the edges of the city.
At til" Hill" "f the ll'ielpt of lll
letter of "Tim lllacl. Hogs" tho pollio
wete Inclined i" ngaid it as a rtiel
hoax. Mis Shea Ih in huinble cir
cumstances ami could by no iios.il
lillltv raise Jj.Mi Momma ir, the lit
tor did not suy where tho mon'V
should l" bit Hut Hi" statement
wiih made in ihe letter that if tli.
money was nut foithcomlng the box
would !' killed at oil. e
.Mis St.i i . ollaiwd "lieu .i.'r long
.strain '1 w ht nded dy tlio
jtiews Me Ilndititf . f her l.ttl
neplie v'h l..'d. iu.I Is now undei tin
care uf a pliysu ian. An autopsy will
bo held immediately tu disclose lh6
1 immediate cause of Uilly'a death.
IBS SEEM UNCONTROLLED
One Report of Second Clash Says
That American Losses Were Se
vere U. S. Agent Told to Treat
With Carranza on His Proposal.
TROOPS "DIG IN" FOR SAFETY
ON LONG AMERICAN LINE
WASHINGTON, April 15. UdtetleppaT j
warded from Ul P;iso carried reports to the Stafe Department ioylfiji J
a second fight between American
I'arral. No details were Riven.
Consul Letcher, at Chihuahua, informed the department that the -r
Chihuahua newspapers gave an unimpassloned account of the Parral fight
ing on Wednesday, saying one American soldier was killed, but failing to
stale how many Mexicans were killed.
Gen. Funston to-day telegraphed the War Department that he had
not heard from Gen. Pershing for three days. Secretary Baker said that
f ifn. Punston was urging Gen. Pershing to rush a report on the Parral
incident.
(Jen. Fuusion's nicHsago was taken to indicate that tlio silence of Gen.
I'erslilug probably was duo to Inability to got information rather than to
interruption of communication.
Despatches from tho border toll of fears for tho safety of Amorlcan
anil other foreigners In I'arral slnco the clash between the Mexicans and
Major Tompkins's troops.
Ono view that tended to cbeck un-'-
oastness over (Ion. I'ershlng's silence
wiis that lie lias heretofore reported
only when bn had Important Infor
mation to communicate. Tlicro was,
therefore, an inclination to doubt that
the clash at I'arral was as sorlnus as
some of the despatches Indicated,
Iteports from other commanders 'n
tlio field give no news regarding the
pursuit of Villa and Tils bandits.
Ileitssiirlng advices from American
Consuls in touch with interior Mexi
can points lead nlllclals to bopn that,
there Is now llttln danger that newsi
of thn lighting at I'arral would arouse
resentment among the Mexican peo-
$1 WITH DEATH MARK
IS NEW CRONES GLUE
Man WIm Gives Hill to Toledo
Taxi Driver Hunted by Police
a ( :hicagn Poisoner.
TOI.KDO. April IS. A II bill pasted
upon thn back or which was a drug
store sticker bearing thn skull and
crossbonrs ami thn nam.. "Jean
Crones," furnished police narly to
day with a posslhln clue to th wbero
aboiits of tho alleged Chicago
poisoner.
T'. bill was turned owr to the
polite by a t.iM.ali ilrlti', to whom
it was given i a man he look to
the t'nioti Station shortly after mid
night. It iv.ih said tho person who
trndeted the money purchased a
ticket for Hie Hast. CiTorts are be
ing made to tract him.
, 'In TnLr ( i'iimi of Niittiin'ft lllriN,
AMIIIS'itTOS .ril II Vhehiid
. f Hits nation .. Invite or Die clinic
i.-iis Unit 1 w II in lae cuie will to
'counted in n hi Mi liiieiit of Agrl.ul
j ture ciiiiauii in Ma) und June with the
I aid of volunteer enumerator.
troops and residents had occurrea it
I
pie which might lead to" further com
plications. CARRANZA STILL COOPERATING,
SAYS BAKER.
1'iesseil for a statement on tho pos
rJblhtv of wlthdiawlng American
tioops, Hecretary of War linker mado
the following formal announcement
this afternoon
'The status of the expedition Into
.Mexico Ih us It was at the beginning
In cordial cunpnrutltin with the da
facto (Inurnment of Mexico. That
cooperation continues and the expedi
tion continues.
"TI.ern has been no change nither
in the purpose, or th orders. No
change has been m.nlo m thn orders
and none lb in contemplation."
Detailed Instructions on his official
attitude in regard to thn Curranra
suggestions for a withdrawal of
American troops were despatched to
Coiul Itodgers at Mexico City to
day by .Secretary I.inslng, While of
ticlals refused to mako any public
announcement in thn matter, It was
learned on high authority tho des-
I patch inform
Itodgrrs of this Gov.
crnmunt's willingness to discuss th
suggestions formally with Mnxlcan
Ambassador Designatn Arredondo.
Itodgers, it is und. rstood, Is not
Instructed to treat with Carranra.
He Is merely to inform the First
Chief of Secretary l.mslng's decision
to receive overtures from tienor Ar
redoiido. Publication In Mexico City of tho
, ter.ns thn (.'ariiuua io eminent seikx
I to impose. Hunting an reciprocal
j troop movements air 'as tho Interna
Miiuial iNiittidarv, sin . I mil. h light on
the diplomatic tannic which preceded
Hen. i . rru i.zii - suggest ion that tho
Vim l (run tioops be recalled from
Me X It'll
' ri'tret:trj l.aiiMiu declined to dls-
i cus the mutter. At thu ttmo ths de-
I fasto government suggested th&t
4 'tiTfiiinfrTTr
