""jPI
tv. "sr?
W w"rf 'f'-yjrvjftv;
Ifteajeftmafrm Hme
WEATHER FORECASTt
Faic Tonight
(Full Report oh Page Two.)
HOME
EDITION
NTJMBEB8871.
WASHINGTON, SATURDAY EVENING, APRIL 15, 1910.
PRICE ONE CENT.
T1 VffrW
HIGH
SCHOOL
D.C.
TEACHERS PLAN TO
JOIN LABOR UNION
Six Hundred Asked to Attend
Meeting Next Thursday to
Organize.
L. V. LAMPSON CHAIRMAN
Sixty Sign Call to Assemble at
Central to Arrange for Looal
Chapter.
U S. Gets Npw Proof
That Berlin Promises
Are "Scraps of Paper"
Submarine Violates Pledge Made
in Frye Case in Sinking Bark
Near England.
FINAL NOTE 'READY TO GO
Stage All Set for "Last Word"
to Be Sent to Kaiser on Un
dersea Terrorism.
Teachers tn the Washington high
schools will organize a. union, to be af
filiated with the American Federation of
Labor, at a meeting at Central High
Sohool next Thursday afternoon.
The call for the formation of the
union was. mailed to 600 high school
teachers today by the temporary officers
selected at an organization meeting last
week.
The temporary officers are I T.
Lampson. chairman: O. J. Jones, secre
tary, and Miss 8ara P. Lynch, treasurer.
Sixty or more teachers have already
signed the call and seven others have
volunteered to canvass the sentiment of
the teachers with a view of having as
large an attendance as possible at
Thursday meeting.
Formation of the teachers union here,
which was said today to be a foregone
conclusion. Is a part of a nation-wide
movement to organise school teachers.
After local unions have been organised
In twenty cities-they will be grouped
Into the American Federation of Teach
ers. Expect Recognition.
The teachers "will not Indorse the
strike except as a last resort." They
will organize, according to the call, "for
protection and expect to be recognized
by the political parties, by capital and
labor as a body posscslng unwonted
power."
The orsanliatlon committee of the
Washington teachers has consulted with
Frank Morrison, secretary of the Ameri
can Federation of Labor, and familiar
ized Itself witn the preliminary steps to
be taken, the dues to be paid the fed
eration, and other details.
AH tho teachers who signed the call
for Thursday's meeting have already
paid Jl Initiation fee. Teachers who
have not paid their fee will bo given op
portunity to do so at tho meeting. The
call requests that no teacher Join the
DMnn Kkfo(-jk.liir1i.lrifr !kp onlluirfllllV
lit and also familiarizing themselves wtn
II ' !.. in.tlhlllnn nt fill. )VmcHlft 1 0-
eratlon of Labor.
The reasons for oiganlztng the union
are enumerated In the call as follows:
"Every clasa of people In the coun
try; Including capital, labor, and the
professions have nation-wide organi
zations for their protection and well
being; "The teachers alone remain In an
unorganized condition;
Have Little Control.
"The teachers of tills country,
through the molding of the political
thought and the developing of the
economic efficiency of each succeed
ing generation of citizens, control,
more than any other class of poople,
the future of the republic, and have
tho least control over their own des
tiny. "A nation-wide organization of
teachers, consolidated for protection,
would be recognized by the political
parties, by capital, and by labor, an a
body possessing unwonted power:
"Such an organization would give
the teachers- of the country a voice In
their own affairs which they do not at
present possess;
Resolved, that the Washington High
School Teachers form a union known
as Local Number , of the Ameri
can Federation of Teachers hereafter
to ho formed:
"The object of this organization should
be, not only tho ptotectlon of tho Inter
est of the teichorf, and tho laboring
cIrfrcs of the ccuntry: but nln. tho
fromotlon ' ' the general Interests of nil
ho people."
Signed by Teachers.
Tho, cnll has been signed .by tho fol
lowing well known high school teachers,
O.elr names appearing In tho order In
which they affixed their signatures: G.
J. Jones, L. V. Lampson. Susanno C.
Ulrtch, II. II. burroughs, K. 8. Noye's,
Reno Samson, Surah E. Simons, Nora
Hoegclsberger, Catherlno A, McAvoy,
Edith C. Paul, Emily F. Slcman. Mark
F. Flnloy, Jr., J. J. Thomas, A. A. Doo
llttle. A. W. Belmont. Mary Wcddoll,
Janet L. Ditto, William A. Hedrlck,
Sarah M. Farr, A. W. Spanhoofd, Marie
il Sclbert, Extello Fenno, Kllcn Golden,
Ellzaaheth K. Walton. W. F. Dales, M.
Ella Morxan. Q. 8. Edelon, Laura D.
SchakelfarJ. Until Rlzer, Christina
Wright, Sara P. Lynch, Marlollo Dclat-
tre, Jessie is. uaKcr, 11. i'. noover,.
Mnry H. Crone, Clem W. Orr. Helen M.
Gary, Martha E Clarke, Louise Rob
bins, Geo. A. It oca, Edna A. Clarke,
Anna McColm. Gcnovlovo Marsh, W. J.
Wallls. Lilly A. Chester, Rosalie Robln
ette, Robert A Mnurcr, und Alvln W.
Miller.
Tho following teachers have consented
to canvass tliu sentiment in moir re
fliwrtlvn Hchnnl: Alvln W. Miller. Bust
utm, a, J. Jonet- and L. V. Lampson,
Central: W. J Wullls, Eastern: Miss
Genevieve Maruli, McKlnlcy, nnd Miss
Lilly A. Chester, western.
BIDS ASKED FOR
REPAYING WORK
Specifications Now Being Pre
pared by District Engineer.
Specifications are being prepared In
th office of tho District engineer of
highway fop ndplialt lesurfacltr work.
Bids will bu opened about June 1.
The contract may ho made frr from
om tn live -nrs In tho discretion of
tho Oouimlsfloners. A ftAi year con
trai would call for the e xpendltura
of about H.0u
The worK will be beuun after July 1.
(Ik heitlnnlng of the new fiscal year.
The preeiH contractor Is the Cranford
I'mlng- Company.
With the stage all set for the sending
of a final and drastlo note to uermany
on tho submarine Issue, the Btate De
partment this morning received further
ovldence that Germany regards her past
assurances to the United States as
"mcro scraps of paper,"
One of these assurances, given In con
nection with the sinking of the Ameri
can sailing vessel William P. Frye, rsad1
as follows:
"Tho German government quite shares
tho view of tho American Government
that all possible care must be taken for
tho security of tho crew and passengers
of a vessel to be sunk. Consequently,
the persons found on board of a ves
sel may not be ordered Into her llte
iboatB except when tho general condi
tion, that Is to say, the weatner, the
condition of the sea, and the neighbor
hood of the coasts afford absolute cer
tainly that tho boats will reach tne
nearest port."
Bark Sank by U-Boat.
Tho department today received tne
following cablegram from Consul Krost
at Queenstown:
"Aberdeen bnrk, Inverlyon, bound
from Portland, Ore., to Lime-Irk, sunk
by submarine gun-fire April 11th, 110
miles west of Valencia (England)' un
armed; no attempt to escape: tlfteen
minutes allowed to abandon -thlp. One
Loat, twclvo men, Including two Ameri
cans, saveJ. Other boat, no Americans,
lost."
Tne fart that tho attack took place
110 miles fiom i-hoie, und that one of the
lifeboats wan lost. Is regarded by of
ficials of the American Government as
evidence that it,r German siibmarlno
commander did net observe the promise
mmlo by his government In tho Fryo
case.
On tho heels of the report "of the
Jeopardizing of two American lives
when the Inverlyon was sunk, the Stato
Department was advised by Consul Gen-
U-Boat Attacks Laid to
"Submarine Insanity"
MADRID, -April 15. "Subma
rino insanity," a queer form
of dementia that attacks men
long confined in crowded
quarters, leads German U
boat crews to commit reck
less attacks on passenger
ships and neutral vessels, a
Spanish specialist declared
today.
Breathing the foul air inside
the U-boat hulls, living on
uncooked food, and pursued
at all times by thoughts of
disaster, the submarine com
manders grow mentally ir
responsible for short periods,
he held.
This theory was evoked by
editorial comments on the
death of the Spanish com
poser, Enrique Granados,
and other Spaniards, who
were aboard the Sussex.
HUNDREDS
GATHER
WHEN
MOTORIST
IS
STOPPED BY POLICE
Crowd indignant as Driver Says
He Is on Way to Hospital
With Father.
TAG FOUND TO BE "DEAD"
Benedict, Md Man Claims He
Borrowed Number to Come
to City.
PERSHING'S SILENCE
ALARMS OFFICIALS;
UNARMED MEN SHOT
eral 8klnncr of London of another sub
marine attack Involving an American.
Consul Sklnrrr said tho American
consul lit Cardlir. Wales, reported tho
refcuo of John O. Harrison, of Chicago,
xteward on the Murgan Abbey, sunk
April R, when tlxty-flvo miles Mouth f
Lizard. Tho vessel was sunk by n sub
marine without warning and without
having offered liny resistance, thv Car
diff consul icnorted.
Altogether, It is stntcd, tho new noto
to Gcrnmnj. vili' to bo In thi nature of
an ultimatum, contains sixty-llvo sen
arato countH in the Indlctmsnt ngalnst
Germany dniimiKn of undersoil tcr
rorUm. SIxly-tlvo times slnro n German
submarine ont the l.usltanla In the hot
torn with her la1 of helpless men. wo
men anu children, tne uonartmert h re
ords aro said to show, has Germany
violated her solemii'promlscs tn abide by
i ne rules or numamty and clvlllztd war
fare. Germany Is to bo Informed In thn new
note. It Is declared, that henceforth the
maintenance of diplomatic relations between-
tho two countries depends on a
(Continued on Second Page.)
WOMAN DEAD AFTER
..
MORPHINE PARTY"
Another Seriously III as Result
of New York's Newest
Poison Mystery.
NBW YOHK. April IS. Mrs. Mabel E.
Hodge, thirty, and prett, is dead, and
Mrs. Margaret Lahah, actress and
music teacher. Is In a serious condition
at Bollevue Hospital today, their cases
presenting one of the most unusual
poison mysteries ever called to the at
tention of the police.
Two witnesses, a man and a woman,
are being held, and search Is being
irlade for a man known only as "Les
ter." The mystery has been called by the
police a "morphine party." Many
well-known persons live In tho apart
ment building where the tragedy oc
curred, among them John Mason, actor;
Hoberla Mcnges Corwln, "The Pearl of
Shcepshcnd Bay," now suing Conway
Tearle for divorce; and Effle Pope. Just
divorced by the aged Kdward D, Alsop.
Morphine Caused Death.
Preliminary Investigation revealed
that morphine was the cause of death.
An autopsy will be held today to con
firm this.
Mrs, Lahah, In whoso luxurious apart
ment the tragedy occurred, Is unable to
talk. The witnesses detained are Mor
ton A. Loeb, real estate agent, and a
woman who says sho Is Dorothy Mor
gan, former "Midnight Frolic" chorus
girl.
The four with the missing witness met
In Mrs. Lallan's apartment Thursday
evening, Mrs. Hodge coming from Al
bany. Friday morning Mrs. Hodge and
Mrs. Lahah retired to a bedroom, the po
lice say, and shortly afterward started
screaming. They had medical attention
until late In tho afternoon when Mrs.
Hodge died.
No Evidence of Suicide Plot.
The police are without evidence that a
suicldo pact existed between Mrs. Hodge
and Mrs. Lahah, but accuse the latter of
attempted suicide. They were unwilling
to state today their opinion of the In
fluence behind Mrs. Hodges' death.
No morphine containers were found In
the apartment, but a box labeled "as
pirin," which did not contain that sub
stance, was found. Its contents are be
ing analyzed,
Miss Morgan and Loeb are reported
to have told the police that they saw
Mrs. Hodge and Mrs. Lnliah In whisper
ed consultation several times, and that
the party had drinks, but so far as they
knew, no drugs.
WOULDN'T THINK OF
RUNNING, SAYS FORD
DETROIT April l.V-M'in a busi
ness mm. nnt a politician, j have no
political nmljltlons. Ur.ller no condi
tion would P content to run for the
Presidency "
This was Henry Ford's statement
hore today In response to perxlxtent
reports that he wor.ld organize n third
political party und run for President
on a peace platform.
He refused to comment In apy wav
on reports of political aittvltlcs of
his lieutenants.
ROOSEVELT WINNER
IN NORTH CAROLINA
Resolution Indorsing Colonel Is
Adopted in Republican Convention.
GOLDSHORO, N. G, April 15. A res
olution Indorsing Colonel Roosevelt was
adopted by tho Republican Congres
sional convention of the Third district.
The other delegates of the State arc un-
Instructed, but. It M said, a majority
of them are also for Roosevelt.
The Rutler and Duncan forces strug
gled all day estorday against each oth
er for the control of the convention. It
developed that Mr. Duncan and his
emissaries had quietly been nt work
over the district, and were claiming a
majority of tho delegates.
Upon tho arrival of Hcnator Butler In
the morning, things got busy, and It was
known when tho convention met that
the Butler forces were In control. This
Is the third signal defeat which National
Committeeman Duncan has met within
the last fow weeks. The convention elect
ed for delegates to the national con
vention Marlon Rutler and J. J. Brln-
son,
Alt of the twenty-nno delegates
from North Carolina have nqw been
chosen. The fight throughout the
Ftate has been RouncvcII and anil
Roosevelt and the Roosevelt forccu
have won. Thero aro one or two
Taft men: that Is, men who support
ed Tuft In 1912; thn ictt are all men
who voted for Itoosovelt and the
Progrerlve ticket four years ago.
As a whole. It Is believed there aro
fifteen or slxtuen delegates who will
otc for Roosevelt on the II rut ballot.
On June 1 the State will hold a r.rof
ercntlnl prlmnrj, In whl'h iLls contl
dently expected the peon'e wHTglvo In
structlonii under which the slld vote
will havo to be cast for llopsevelt.
Only Two Battalions
Left at Columbus
When on automobile containing a sick
man on his way to a hospital was held
by tho police at Fourteenth and O
streets about noon today, trouble threat
ened from a crowd of pedestrians, who
denounced the nctlon of tho police as
nn outrage and yelled: "Flro him!
Klre him!"
The crossing was thronged with Indig
nant spectators, who believed the sIck
man In a dying condition. Business men
turned aside from their duties to argue
with the ciosilng officer. Clerks Join
ed In the demands that the car bo al
lowed to proceed without Interference,
Professional men halutcd tn join the
crowd, which grew steadily until nearly
h thousand persons were clusterca
there.
Meanwhile Superintendent Pullman's
desk telephono rang a score of times.
and each time a different spectator
called tho chief's attention to tho oc
currence. Sends Inttpcctor.
Major ullman Immediately dispatched
an Inspector from headquarters to In
vestigate. He found that George C.
Uuckner. driver of the car, had been
haled to the First Precinct Htallon for
an alleged violation pf traffic rules.
The matter, however, was finally ad
justed, the sick man uhh permitted
to go nn his way to the hospital, nnd
tho crowd dispersed with1 the knowl
edge that tho sick man had not been
In u dying condition.
Crosdlng Policeman A. V. McOowan,
who held up the ear. was called upon
tn maku a report to Major Pullman of
tho circumstances. Following thin
the major declnrcd that the police
mail simply did his duty.
.tohn O. Uuckner, of Benedict, Mil., the
sick man, accompanied by his two sons,
.1 O. Uuckner. Jr., 'nnd George C. Buck
ner, nnd his eon-ln-lnw, Daniel !.
Hhurtrr. started for Washington early
muiiy.
"Xy father has been very III," Bald
Uenrgc V Uuckner, who ilrovp thn car.
"A relapso following nn nttacK ot
grip, caused an abcess to form on his
lunRS. The physician attending him
yestoiday ordered us to not him to the
hospital as speedily as possible.
"llnvlng no District license number
for our car, we borrowed one, planning
to catch tho 11 o'clock electric trHln for
Maltlinorn to put my fathor In tho Mary
land t'nivcrslty Hospital.
"At Fourteenth nnd O streets we were
behind two other cars. J'.io crossing
7,lcc,r Knvo UH tho "iKnnl to proceed.
All threo of the cars started. The two
a"nead of us cleared tho tracks, leav
ing ub right on the street car right of
way when tho officer signalled to stop.
Had Borrowed Number.
"I sent my car clear of the tracks and
stopped. The police accused mo of
violating tho traffic icgulatlons, and
while I was explaining, ho discovered
that the numbers I had borrowed were
' dead numbers.
"I told him that I was rushing to
catch ii rraln to take my father to a
hospital, but he would not listen to me.
Liu Insisted that 1 accompany him to
the pollci station."
At tlio I-lrst precinct, Ruckner left 110
ii iiuii'iiii un n runri?n nr rninm . n..
servo tha grossing officer's signal and
running under a dead number.
The latter chargo will be dropped. It
was Indicated, because Mr. Ruckner Im
mediately went to tho District building
nnd obtained n new license.
.i.OHi"'n,r.Po,,c,,r".nn McGowon slated
that he stopped tho automobile when
ft?n.'i,r,vv& 'fftll.'d to nhev M tariff
slcnal When he went un to the enr
ho discovered It bote n "dead" llccnso
number, nnd arrest ed the driver for
operating without a license.
He did not know, hp stated, that tho
da'ngror,??;isiva.7.t. ' ,h nu''
tp,,?!!eCCpXeM.CPa,?rnn WMnttJ
that elapsed before the two returned to
TUriMntlV,andn ?troot' "Pcctntors say
d'ange'rsly'Ii.."""" n,"a1 t0 bo
DEMANDS ARMS EMBARGO
A resolution directing President Wilson to put an immediate stop to
further exportation of ammunition and arms into Mexico was
introduced in the House today by Congressman Rodenberg of
Illinois.
Discussing his resolution Rodenberg said: "Today's papers make
the astounding announcement that as late as yesterday the State
Department issued a permit to the de facto government of
Mexico to pass 1,000,000 rounds of small-arms ammunition from
Douglas, Ariz., across the line to Agua Prieta, during the next
few days, and that the ammunition is now en route to the border.
I regard the granting of this permit as little short of criminal.
"Carranza has given abundant evidence of his, treacherous character,
and unless all signs fail, this very ammunition which our bewil
dered and befuddled Administration is permitting him to import
will be used to kill our soldiers in Mexico.
"Tho ammunition used by Villa in shooting up Columbus was secured
from the United States under a permit of the Administration at
a time when Villa was basking in the sunshine of Mr. Wilson's
favor. It is high time that Congress should pass legislation to
prevent a repetition of the fearful mistake."
SOLDIERS
ATTACKED
AS THEY GO INTO
TOWN FOR FOOD
Not a Word Received From Ex
peditionary Force Since
Treachery at Parral. "
GRAVEST FEARS FELT HERE
MEXICANS STARVING
GREAT GUNS POUND
AWAY ALONG MEUSE SAYS SENATOR FALL
Base Camp Practically Stripped of
Troops to Re-enforce Perish
ing in Mexico,
OOLUMHUB. N. M , April 15 (via
courier to El Paso). The base camp nt
Columbus linn almost been stripped nt
tioops since tho re-enforcing of tho ex
pedition In Mexico began teccntly.
Two battalions of tho Twontleth nnd
the Twenty-fourth Infantry nnd two
troops of tho Twelfth Cavalry remain
bero today. The Infantrymen slept In
their uniforms last night, prepared to
move at a moment's notice.
The crucial situation reflected In prep
arations was embphaslzed by tho hur
ried departure of several trucks with
JS8.000 rounds of ammunition,
Tho drivers and guards in this motor
train did not tako time to eat. Another
marhlne left at full speed for tho border
later. Ofllcers were silent rccardlnir Its
acsUnatlou. 1
Lull in Infantry Attacks on Ver
dun ContinuesFrench Re
pulse German Skirmishers.
I'AItIR, April 15. Heavy artillery ac
tions took place on the west bank of the
Meuse last night, but the lull In Infan
try fighting on the Verdun front con
tlnued, the war office reported today.
The Germans directed a rather violent
.cannonado age. Inst French works be
tween Malancourt wood nnd Hill 301. but'
made no attempt to follow up the bom
bardment with Infantry charges.
French guns were active throughout
the night, particularly In the region
west of Corbeaux wood, nnd at the
crossings of Forges brook. East of tho
Mcuso and In the Wocvre only Inter
mlttent bombardments occurred.
French droops rcpulncd German recon
nolssancca In the region of Parcilllers,
north of Royc, and south of Ot Marie
Mlencs, In tho Voeges.
Austrians Inflict Heavy
Losses Upon Italians
VtEN.NA, April It. Austrian troops
have captured an Italian position on
Mrllvrh Height, the enemy suffering
henw losses. It was officially announced
toony,
French Grenade Attacks
Fail, Berlin Announces
RHRI.tN' Arrll ir,. French gn-nado
nttneks southwest of Fort Douaumont
last night rroved Ineffective, the war
office announced tls afterroon.
Aubtrlan troops, by n surprise at
tnck. occurltd a Russian nd'-nnccd
position on tho -lend from Rucincr to
Osr.orthow, said or official statement
from thi? Aiuitrlan war office today.
Slight gains on the Italian front and
tho evncnatlcn of one Austrian posi
tion, were piinouneed.
Steamer Strikes Mine,
Two of Crew Missing
LONDON, April 15.-Tho Rrltlsh
steamer Shenandoah struck n mine nnd
tank. Two of ber crew nro nineing.
Declares Government Officials
Are Looting Treasury
Telegram Here.
in
Frantio Efforts Made by Every
Means to Get Into Communi
cation With Troops.
Poorer classes of Mexicans are starv
ing, government officials are looting the
treasury, and Mexican reports, official
or otherwise, cannot be relied upon. Sen
ator Fall said In a telegram received to
day by Senator GsJllngcr, Republican
floor leader.
-Th telegram was sent from Thre
Rivers, New Mexico, from where Sena
tor Fall Is making an Investigation of
conditions.
Ills Information, Fall said, was based
on reports of his ranch employes who
havo been In Mexico for a month. The
food supply Is being used for urmed
bands, and the only employment offered
Is "a rifle to bo used for or against
Carranza."
The telegram In part reads;
"Calles In Sonora laboring tu keep
Naco and Agua Prieta ports open ac
count heavy collections from export
copper and oil. Nacozarl and Cananea
Sroceeds enabling him support and
eep troops. Satisfied Calles person
ally will not tight us. but only ac
tually contorls 2,500 of his 9,000 sol
diers. Gomez, one of Calles generals,
dangerous If allowed get too close.
Our columns place absolutely no con
fidence any statement, official or
otherwise, emanating from Mexican
sources. All taxes, forced loans, im
port and export collections used for
army and so-called official commis
sions und officials being appointed
all Imaginary excuses to make places
and pay temporary adherents, and no
attempt to pay Interest on debt or
considered damage claims. Country
being looted In every Imaginable way. '
Fall urges organization of thiee
regiments from New Mexico and Tex
as for Mexican duty. These men, be
said, would furnish their own horses
und arms, and are thoroughly familiar
with Mexico.
Tho 8hcnanJo.ih displaced ?,S?6 tons
nnd was 370 feel long. Sho was oullt lu
ISM nnd registered at Liverpool.
DIGGS-CAMINETTI
CASE IS UP AGAIN
Motion to ad ar.ee th? noted DU'ks
Caminettl white slave ense for a Julnt
hearing ot the next court term was
filed In the friiprcma Court today by
Solicitor General Davis fr the Depart
ment of Jiibtlce.
F. Drew Caminettl, con of the Com
missioner of Immigration, nnd Moury I.
Diggs appealed to the Supreme Court
from their conviction In California
courts.
Uncle Sam As An Employer
Do You Know How the "Other Half" Lives?
Government Employes Must Read This
A remarkable story of the struggle for existence of the underpaid Government
emp oyes of Washington will be told in The Sunday Evening Times. The hearings
on the Nolan bill necessarily given incomplete attention in the daily reports of
Congressional proceedings constitute an indictment of the Federal Government
and the tragedy or men and women who are working for their Government for $1,
S 1. 50, SI. 60, 5 1.75, and $2 a day.
More than 7,000 Government employes here receive less than $720 a year,
the testimony shows. The tales of privation told by reluctant and humiliated wit
nesses are almost unbelievable.
The Times is able to present them in advance of the publication of what prob
ably will be the most remarkable document ever issued from the Government
Printing Office.
Every Government clerk, every man and woman no matter in what walk
of life who believes in a fair chance for all, will profit by reading this full page
story of the "other half" in $- ,
The Sunday Evening Times
Failure to receive any official
report from General Pershing on
the treacherous attack upon United
States soldiers at Parral is caus
ing deep concern.
General Funston reports that he
has heard nothing from the head
of the expeditionary force for days
in spite of insistent "requests"
forwarded by every conceivable
means for such a report.
So far the only version save the
first account from Carranza re
ceived by the Administration is
that forwarded 'by Funston from
Consul Letcher at Chihuahua City,
and the Mexico City version that
bears it out.
Unconfirmed consular reports
say that a second battle occurred
at Parral, but no details are given.
According to the most reliable
accounts that have leaked through
unarmed American soldiers enter
ing Parral were attacked by en
raged civilians and 'Carranzista
soldiers last Wednesday.
FIRED ON TWO MEN.
V small detachment of forty mon was
sent Into the city for supplies. They
wero pieccdcd by two men. who were,
fired upon without warning
One of the detachment was killed as
they fell back under tire before their
comrades coming to their aid mowed
down half a hundred of the Mexicans
with a machine cun.
These are the main facts of the Parral
battle as related In an unofficial report
from Consul Letcher and borne out In
dispatches from Mexico City.
Consul Letcher stated that these facts
were currently related In Chihuahua
City, and General Funston In giving out
the crport, said he was Inclined to ac
cept It us a. fairly accurate acount.
c A statement accredited to tho sub
secretary of foreign relations at Mexico
City says the soldiers were forced Into
Parral for supplies, and were fired on
ty civilians.
Ueneal Funston advised the War Ue
partment today that he had not heat a
from General Pershing for threo days.
Ho said he had sent Insistent messages
to General Pershing urging him to re
port on his operations so that ho can
keep Washington advised.
Secretary liakcr said he was till
without a report of the attack on the
American cavalrymen by .Mexicans at
Parral. He had no Information as to
the fato ot the cavalry detachment led
0 Major Tompkins.
Secretary Uaker refused positively to
discuss this mysterious Wlilte House
visit shortly beforo midnight last night,
He saw the President after receiving
a lengthy report from General Funston.
Mr. Baker Insisted there was no
change In the policy governing the
Mexican expedition or in tho ordors to
Ueneral Funston as a result of the re
cent .Mexican demands for wlthdrawHl
of tho troops. He said that no change
ot poTrcy Is now contemplated.
"Trcacheroua Attack."
The reports of the attack ure replete
with circumstantial detail that marks
the Parral attack as one or the moat
treacherous acts yet recorded In the
campaign of the American punitive ex
pedition. Here Is tho story of the attack, prac
tically as convoyed by the consular re
port: The American detached force, sup
poscdly two troops of the Thirteenth
Cavalry, under command of Major
Fiank ("Tommy") Tompkins, with a
machine detachment trailing behind,
emerged from a cloud or dust along the
main highway running through Parral
and halted just outside tho town and
made camp.
They were without mod for many or
horse, and the question of Immediate
reprovlslonlng was Imperative,
Flvo squads wero tolled off as a quar
termaster's detail, and under charge of
a Junior officer were orderod to pro
ceed Into the town and buy what pro
visions were to bo had.
"Without arms and sldearmi," was tha
order. Accordingly caitrldge belts were
stripped off and the holsters with pro
truding six-shooters left behind. Saber
