3R
WEATHER
Arizona Friday and
Saturday generally fair
and warmer. -
NFI YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
April 12. 27.25.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 18, NO. 276.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, APRIL 15, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
MEXICAN SITUATION BOILS 001
IE
VNOZIHV 'XIN30H4
limit
n tv i it
lit
1
1 It Iff 1 1 II 1 I IRII
11 1! L L I I 1 1 I L
tin 10 0 U
rv.W
. S. READY TO
TREAT WITH
BE FAGTO
CHIEF
Pending the .Outcome of Di
' plomatic Negotiations, How
ever, Pursuit of Villa and
His Bandits will Go On.
CABINET MEETING
CONSIDERS SUBJECT
Whether or Not Forces Will
Be Withdrawn Depends, it
- is Thought, Upon Ability of
Carranza to Stop Raids.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. April 14. The
United States is prepared to treat
with Genera! Carranza, as propos
ed in his note of yesterday, for the
withdrawal of 'American troops
from Mexico. Pending the outcome
of the diplomatic negotiations, '
however, the status of the expedi
tion will remain unchanged and
thp pursuit of Villa continue.
This was the situation as offi
cially stated today after President
Wilson and his cabinet had con
sidered the new phases of the
Mexican problem raised by Gener
al Carranza's communication. Sec
retary ..Lansing said he wa pre
pared to take up the matter with
the defacto government but would
not indicate when a reply might
he sent. Secretary Baker said no
orders had been sent to General
FunFton and none were under con
templation. Both secretaries said
there had been no change in the
policy of the administration which
prompted the pursuit of Villa.
From other sourceR it was learn-
ed that the success of the Carran-'
za government in demonstrating
its intentions and ability to con
tinue the pursuit and extermina
tion of the bandits, should Ameri
can forces be recalled, would
weigh heavily with President Wil
son in ranching a final decision.
News of the American forces, at
tacked at Parral. Mexico, last
Tuesday by civilians, is anxiously
nwaited. Gen. Carranza's infornja--tion
was that his soldiers had done'
everything in their power to stop
the firing at the American troops.
UroTicial versions of the incident
however, have asserted that Car
ranza soldiers were among the at
tackers. Secretary Lansing would not
tay whether he was prepared to
' negotiate with the defacto govern
ment with a view to the possible
fixing of a date for the withdrawal
of American troops. He indicated
that the time element of any agree
ment would be based on what de
veloped in the pursuit of the ban
dits. As the administration's at
titude i3 understood here, a satis
factory demonstration by the Car
ranza military forces, of their
ability to stop once and for all the
brigandage in the border states,
would see the object of the Ameri
can expedition accomplished.
CALIFORNIA SCHOOL WINS.
LOS ANGELEC;, Calif.. April 14.
The debating team of the College of
Law, University of Southern Califor
nia, won here tonight what is con
sidered the intercollegiate champion
ship, when awarded a unanimous de
cision over the representatives of Co
lumbia University of New York. The
local debaters presented the affirma
tive side on the question:
"Resolved, that there shall be an
immediate and material increase in
the army and navy of the United
States."
INCENDIARY STARTED
BIG FIRE IN SALEM
BOSTON. April 14. A hired incen
diary started the fire which burned a
large part of Salem, causing a loss of
$13,000,000 in June, 1914. according to
developments today in connection with
the grand jury's investigation of a so
called arson trust. Acting on evidence
in his possession, district attorney J.
C. Pelletier placed under surveillance
a suspect who is alleged to have gone
to salem from this city on the morn
ing of the fire carrying a mysterious
yellow liquid and packages of powder.
The suspect is said to have told his
friends that he had "big job" on his
hands in Salem that day.
AMERICANS ARRESTED.
PRESIDO. Texas, April 14.
Four Americans, who rode a
few miles across the border
from here for the purpose of
taking pictures were arrested
by Mexican soldiers and their
arms, consisting of a revolver,
a shotgun and rifle' were taken
from them. They were then
released and returned here.
Americans Unarmed
WhenAttackedUpon
Entry Into Parral
Unconfirmed Version of Affair1
.From Consul Letcher In
fers that Carranza Soldiers
and Civilians Participated.
(By Review Leased Wire)
SAN ANTONIO. April 14. The Am
ericans whom, the Mexicans at Parral
attacked, were unarmed, according, a
an unconfirmed version of the incident
current in Chihuahua and transmitted
to General Funston today. According
to this story, forty of the troopers en
tered Parral presumably to purchase
supplies and were fired upon. Two
were killed and the remainder retreat
ed to the main body of troops encamp
ed outside the city.
The attacking force pursued them
and were met by a fire from the Amer
icans who were using a machine gun,
killing forty Mexicans.
According to this story the attack
ing party "comprised Carranza soldiers
and civilians.
This version of the Parral incident
was sent from Chihuahua to General
Bell, at El Paso, who forwarded it fc
General Funston. Full allowance was
given by departmental officers to Con
sul Letcher's qualifying words "un
confirmed version that was current"
In Chihuahua, but there was manifest
ed a disposition to credit the report.
Many of the officers at headquarters
here regarded the story as more prob
lematical than some of the versions
that came out of Mexico.
It was pointed out that in previous
occasions; soldiers had entered towns
for the purpose of buying supplies- and
were received in a friendly manner.
General Funston continued bis ef
forts today to get an official report
from General Pershing of the occur-!
rence, but late today, no word from i
him or any other officer in the puni-1
tive expedition had been received. The1!
last heard from General Pershing was
that he v. as moving south from Sate
vo and it is presumed that the com
manding officer of the detachment that
got into trouble at Parral had sent'
his report back in the usual manner, j
nrst to nis coionei, wco men trans
mitted it to General Pershing, who in
turn would have to overcome the diffi
culties of communication by courier or
aeroplane to a wireless station.
General Funston's orders to officers
along the line of communication to
guard against attack and to despatch
scoutg to ascertain movements of any
body of troops, are being carried out
along the entire line, it is understood.
Lieut. Gorrell and Dargue, in an aero
plane, scouting for some trace of Gen
eral Amulfo Gomez' forces that were
reported preparing to move towards
Casas Grandes, failed to locate the
troops, but did make what is said to
be a new record in army aviation, fly
ing 310 miles in four hours and 20
minutes.
They passed along the Cbihuabua
Sonora state line, some distance over
the state of Sonora in the neighbor
hood of Pulpito Pass, but saw nothing
of any troops notwithstanding a close
scrutiny of the country.
General Gomez was at Agua Prieta
where be said he was waiting orders
to join in the pursuit of Villa, but
some anxiety had been aroused here
by the dispatch, a few- days ago, of a
force in the direction of the American
line of communication. The search
for that and other forces will be con
tinued. Just what precautionary steps have
been taken by General Funston to
guard the line and meet any eventual
ity were not revealed. He received
during the day new instructions from
the War Department. Short of a war
measure General Funston would hesi
tate to use more troops in Chihuahua
and leave the border without protec
tion, without order8 from Washington.
' NO TRACE OF- GOMEZ
COLUMBUS. N. M..' April 14. Moun.
ted scouts and airmen watched today
for the forces of General Arnulfo Gom
ez, reported west of Espia, 46 miles
south of Columbus, moving southeast
with the ostensible purpose of joining
in the pursuit of Villa. However, ac
cording to reports tonight, Gomez had
not appeared near the motor supply
route.
Hurried efforts were made today to
stiengthen the American guard on the
line between here and Casas Grandes,
particularly at Ascension, sixty miles
south of Columbus, where Captain IT.
S. Grant, a grandson of the former
(Continued on Pace 8)
mmm win;.
;!iiiLiuniiu it ill :
i INSIST M i
I LIMITING j
TDfinDG ;
MIUUIJ
Sub Secretary of Foreign Af
fairs, Amador, Declares
Only One Service and Lim
ited Number to Mexico.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
MEXICO CITY, April 14. The Mex
ican government will insist with in
flexible determination that any armed
expedition of the United States which
enters Mexican territory, in the guise
of a punitive expedition, must be lim
ited to 1,000 men of one service alone.
cavalry, according to statement ninda o," T n ,
. . j .-. . . . , Stone, chairman of the foreign rc!a-
to the Associated Press today by Juan , ... , ,,, , .,
. . . ... lions coma.ittee, is thought to have
Neftali Amador, sub-secretary ot lr-jvoici.d thcr administration' view to
ei!.riaVS;K.,.. , . n',l St" Bpotkln after a confer-
Y""u " -
dido Aguilnr, minister of foefsn rela
tions, in Queretaro, sub-secretary Am
ador is in charge of the foreign office
and is conducting its course in intei
national affairs.
"The Mexican government has con
tended in all of its notes to the Wash
ington State Department," said the
sub-secretary, "that the sending of
heavy artillery and slow marching in-1
fantry on a punitive expedition is ill -
ogical and the work of the present so-
called punitive expedition has more
than demonstrated this, for they have!
accomplished absolutely nothing. Mex -
ico win mil nas in an m us coinmuni -
cation.-, to Washington insisted that
all punitive expeditions must be limit-
ed to certain restricted areas. The re-
quest of the United States that the
pesent expedition be considered excep
tional cannot be agreed to by the Mex
ic an government for the very good rea
son that each day of its presence so
far inland does nothing but excite our
people. This is being taken advantage
of by enemies of the constitutionalism
government who are endeavoring to
gIip. inilnta that u-!ll ha. .a i. i
lnX.i-natir.na1 nmni;.linnc
,
!a ,
.be j
v
., ;
"The Parral ncident is a case
fsvsi ii i a u:i.-iiu.i i u o am ir-i nif tuc t
In ct rrn in the hnotpt qtiH Kl iurui !
tht hn m.o i,ri,, n,ni .,jirWt.,,,.,r-r.',.i4fl ,
. : in . i . an in vi ii i dill . 1. o. i yj 11 ji .1 1 ii- i. nvritr irn Itru ell . i. r
vemment realize i.s'the White House and by members of if f'",, P'ants o manufacture
they will gladly ac- the President's official family. It is ;,ntra,f m ts of the plants, to be
request and. in the j understood it was made very clear in grated exclusive y by the govern-
the American gov
full significance th
onla t Movion't r-c
2 : ,:
traditional friendship which exists be- j
tween the two countries, will withdraw
the troops.
"No one has ever questioned the hon i
esty of the President of the United rePh can prepared to the Carranza
States in limiting the present military ; note and diplomatic machinery be set
expedition to a punitive nature, but it , in motion for the negotiations between
Is hard to convince the populace that ! tne two countries,
a force of thousands of men of three I Th' Sta'-e Department saw no rea
branches of the service do not have aon totla' 10 mire fron i,s position
the semblance of invaders. The Mexi-! ,nat a formal agreement under which
can government believes in the friend- i tnp Tossing of the Mexican border in
ship of the United States and believes j Pursuit of Villa proceeded had been
that the present crisis will pass, leav-1 reached with General Carranza be
ing more cordial relations than ever." j fore the order to ,110ve was 'r1ven- ,n
General Carranza asked to be excus-1 11 8 reP'-v to 'arranza's proposal for
ed from discussing international ques-( a reciprocal agreement, the Depart
tinnn anH nforri ih ..m rrnHn. , nienl stated clearly the terms of that
to the foreign office which he said was
fully authorized to present the views
of himself and his government. Sub
secretary Amador then explained Mex
ico's position.
The sub-secretary asked as to the
reports that the governor of the state
of San Luis Potosi had served notice
on General Carranza that unless the
American troops were withdrawn with
in a certain specified time thev would
join in opposing their further move-'
ment southward.
This is absolutely untrue," replied j
Senor Amador. "It is true enemies of
the Carranza government have been
working strenuously with the people
of the north lo persuade them that the)
present movement is invasive and not
punitive in its nature. At first they
met with some success, but we arrt
convinced that the people now under
stand the situation. The attack on the
Americans in Parral was due to the in
fluence of these enemies of the govern
ment. One of them fired point blank
nt an American soldier, killing him.
Central shooting then began. Although
the soldiers had orders not to entr
towns these men were forced into Par-H
ral because they could get nothing to
eat in the surrounding country.
"That is the reason the Mexican gov
ernment has insisted in its notes to
Washington to the -limits or the zono
which may be traversed by any puni
tive, expeditions, extend not farthei
than forty miles, nor. in our opinion .The State and War Departments are
should punitive expeditions be allowed ' not disposed to allow this to go un
in the territory of either country for I challenged. To meet it. however, a
an unlimited time. Our note of March I careful review or what the troops
18, Article 8. specifies the number or have done, and are doing, beyond the
troops which may pass the border I border, will have to be mad". Onlv
must never exceed 1.000 and these !
must not remain in the zone for more
than five days, except in Very unususl
cases." '
The entire correspondence which
(Continued on Page Five.)
CANAL OPEN TODAY.
WASHINGTON, April 14.
Tomorrow is tha date set for
reopening the Panama Canal
closed to commerce since Sep
tember IS, by slijles. War de
pal tmont official' said tonight
thr.t no word had come of a
change in the plans and it was
assumed that ships would begin
passing througii according to
program.
:i
!
Stone Voices View
of Administration
On Mexican Problem
Senator States That Only One ;
Alternative Remains if
Troops Continue to Press
Further Into Mexico.
(By Review Leased Wrre)
U'ACiJIVnTAV 4 .-.-II It c .
ence with Secretary Lansing.
! "The problem confronting this gov-
eminent," the senator said, "is how
long It would be wise to keep an ex
peditionary force in Mexico. If we
adhere to our policy towards Mexico
we cannot keep the army there.' To
my niir.d the on!y alternative to with
drawing the troops sooner or later is
intervention."
Senator Stnne saiil (tint uhilo he
1 had stronelv favored the enrti..ff nf
tne expedition, he had never believed
w woum succeed in canturine or
killing Villa. The troops already haditig contest over the Senate substitute
; accomplished something, he added, in
, Lreakinir un n:i'P of lhn Villa hanrl.
Some army officers share the view
that the capture of Villa is most im-
j probable, unless the expedition is in
creased in size and scope to a com
! pirte military occupation of all north
ern Mexico. Since the administration
lias no intention to take such a step,
they feel that the present mission of
the expeditionary forces Is merely an
offensive movement in defense of the
border. They do not believe raids on
American towns are likely as long as
i tltts m ..-n ii tn 1. . ,, r.. v-
i,ar.,i 1 Ii n .
, . , , - : j ana i a .anai uonas dj me govern-
the international line Great interest . f , fc pd $
n the outcome of the 0ab.net meeting 1 000 and ,he Presjdent w0'uM bt)ulbor.
today was manifested by members or-. ,, ,, , .T.
Congress. Manv inquiries as to thel'f t0 rthn fivf
,.,,.... , K ,..". .t.. .Pvter power sites to make them avail-
ffincrpiic Vunv tnsiiiirio a a s liu
,-.rv ...,..,. ,,., .,..i ii
would not be allow ed to have the
slightest weight in dealing with the
protleni.
Several days may elapse before a
agreement as it understood them and
declared thein to be operative. A week
or so elapsed, it was pointed out. be
fore any question was raised. In the
meantime. American troops already
were on Mexican soil.
Mr. Lansing said today he had no
recollection of having assured Eliseo
Arredondo, on March L'".!. that the
troops would not go fan her south
than they then were until the dip
lomatic situation was cleared, and
that he must have been misiiniler-
stood by Mr. Arredondo. He added
that at the time he did not know how
far the troops had gone.
Many of the points raised in the
Carranza note were viewed as refer
ring to the protocol negotiations
which followed, and not to the original
reciprocal agreement.
It will take time to gather and
study all the facts. Part of the nego
tiations with Mr. Arredondo were con
ducted by Counsellor Polk in the ab
sence of the secretary.
Mr. Polk is resting at Hot Springs,
Va.. and will not .return to Washing
ton until next Tuesday. Lansing
showed no inclination to seek a per
sonal report from him until his re
turn. Attention has been given to the
fact that the Carrjnza note rested its
request for engotiations In part upon
the statement that the American ex
pedition was not fulfilling its object,
the capture of Villa and dispersal of
his hnmls nml could nnt fulfill it.
brief telegraphic advices so far have
been received. Full statements and
explanations of opinion will be ob-
tained in all probability from General
Funston nt San Antonio and from
(Continued on Page 8)
MITMTE PUNI
EMENT
PUSSES THE
s
Upper Branch of Congrei De
cides to Appropriate $15,
000,000 for Nitrate Plant
for Manufacturing Powder.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
The day in Congress.
Senate Resumed discussion of
army reorganization, bill. Sisal,
iiivesiigation continued.
House Discussion of agricu'tur- ;
al Appropriation bill continued.
Disagreed to Senate amendment
for the House bill to repeal thei'
fiee sugar clause of the tariff and
sont the bill to committee.
Senate Adopted amendment to
army bill providing for $15,000,000
government nitrate plant. Recess
ed :it 5:35 p. m. to noon Saturday.
House Adjourned 5:15 p. m. to
11 a. m. Saturday.
WASHINGTON, April 14. Champi
ons of a government hydroelectrolitic
plant to produce nitrate for the manu
facture cf war munitions and. fertiliz
er won their fight in the Senate today
by inserting an amendment proposing
an appropriation o( $15,000,000 for the
purpose in the Chamberlain army In
crease bill. The vote was 43 to 22.
This action disposed of the second
for the House army bill. It was taken
in spite of the contentions of the mili
tary committee than an army reorgan
ization measure was not the place for
the water power legislation. . A nitrate
water power section in the House bill
was defeated when the Hay bill was
under consideration in the House so
that final determination of the issue
must wait action by conference cv
ni'ttee by the two houses.
Today's p.ction was based on an am
endment ty Senator Smith, of South
-Cerolina. It would provide for sale of
l..indl DOnCIS D tile gOVem
water power site., to make them avail
ment. not needed for manufacture of
munitions of war, could be disposed
of and sold by the Secretary of War
for the manufacture of fertilizer.
Three Democrats. Senators Chamber
lain, chairman of tbe military commit
tee, Johnson of Maine, and Hard wick
voted against the amendment while
several Republican Sectors. Clap;),
Gronna. Kenyon, Lafollette, McCumb
er. Norris and Poindexter joined with
tre majority in supporting it.
Over the objection of the military
committee and amendment by Senator
Pomerene giving military rank to uiem
bers of the dental corps, was adopted.
Senator Wads worth urged the adop
tion of his amendment to require offi
cers and enlisted men. upon entering
the National Guard to take oath to
obey the orders bolh of the President,
and of the governor of their states.
He said the amendment would
strengthen the proposed federalization
of the national guard, by making the
officers and men federal soldier, from
the moment of enlistment instead of
only in time of war. Senator Cham
berlain was willing to accept the am
endment but considerable opposition
developed among southern senators.
On a roll call for the proposal the vote
was 23 to '22 less than a quorum, and
the Senate recessed until tomorrow at
11 o'clock, when debate on the bill un
der the ten minute rule will be resum
ed. BRITISH CASUALTY LIST.
LONDON. April 14-Evidence that
heavy fighting has been going on
along the Rritish front in France re
cently is given in the casualty lists
of the last two days. Today's list
contains the names of 24 officers
killed and 107 wounded. Included in
the list of wounded are a number of
Canadians. There 1'a good deal of
comment on the brvi! pf ;tneMll
tial reports of th xefM)tki;tilui.4
"These actions." says a newspaper,
"one is continually learning from
talks with men on leave, have been
of. great importance but have been
'described in curt, two line ,reports.'
TROUBLE IN SOUTH AFRICA
LONDON. April 14. Special des
patches rrom Johannesburg say that
190 persons have been convicted and
entenced frtr participation in the eo-
called poison plots in Midsjascar last
ear- Forty of them have ben ordered
imprisoned for various terms, ranging
from two years to life, w hile the re
mainder were banished for periods or
from two to twenty years.
VILLA INDICTED.
DEM INC. X. M.. April 14.
The grand jury which has been
investigating the Columbus
raid today returned an indict
ment today again it Francisco
Villa charging him with mur
der in the first degree. Similar
indictmeuts were returned also
. against two of the eight bandits
captured after the raid.
'
Controversy Over
Submarine Issues
Coming to Climax
President and Cabinet Discuss
Question. It is Thought the !
Last American Word Has
Been Sent i
WASON. JftTl.
Wilson and the cabinet went over the;
submarine crisis again today and re-j
affirmed their determination to brin j
lllf SllUBllUll 11U vaci Ulttlf jr IU nil IS -
sue.
The decision to inform Germany thati
the receut accumulation of evidence'
of ships destroyed in submarine war-j
fare leads to the inevitable conclusion)
that her promises to the United States
are not being fulfilled, remained un
changed. The ti:e of despatching a
'communication to Berlin appeared to
be the only point undecided. In Con-
gress today a report was widely circu-1 became more baffling than ever U-,
lated that the forthcoming note would j nightflue' to the amazing variety 'if
in itself give notice of a severance of ' conflicting reports w hich poured into
diplomatic relations. 'El Paso from every conceivable and
There were repeated indications to-, "'any unconceivable points,
night that the note would be a state- j . There was one point whic h was de
ment of the American case up to date t finite: A message was received here'
without anything in the nature of an j by an American concern from its
ultimatum, and still would leave the , representative in TartuI stating that
way open for Germany to avoid the! at five o'clock Wednesday evening
long feared break in diplomatic rela- j American soldiers were passim
tions. It was plain, however, that It ; through Parral and that everything
would be intended as the American i was quiet them. As the fighting be
government's last word. ! tw een t'.ie Americans and Mexican is
j mitten who have been told by the
President that they would be consult
ed before any drastic steps were tak
en, ueciaiea lonignt mat tney nau not
yet been advised of the details of the
next step. Chairman Stone conferred
ar !th Our vit . I ni rlitvtniT lha ? i u .
but declared there was nothing new in
the situation.
At the State Department there was
renewed evidence that the United
States considers its case complete ev
en without the affidavits which arriv-
ed today on the steamer St. Paul. Sec-1 possession of the town. The two
retary Lansing acknowledged that evi- soldiers were surrounded by an aasry
'tence gathered from the French gov-, mob and in the excitement a shot was
ernment to prove the identity of thi fired which killed one of them. The
submarine involved In the Sussex at- . mob then poured out in the direction
rack had been, placed in possession of of the main body of the Americans
the American government. Such evi- and some indiscriminate flghti.tg took
dence, propertly substantiated, was re- place in which a numlx-r of Mexican
gnrded as the capstone of the Ameri- weie wounded. The Carranza garri
can case if one seemed necessary. son assisted in .restoring- order, ac
;Mr. Lansing's only comment on the lordin 10 ,his account and later the
evidence was that it would be exam -
ined.
The impression which officials per
mitred to prevail was that the note to
Germany would not go forward until
all the evidence had been carefully
considered, but thai enough was af
hand to make up the American case.
note would go within 4.S hours. In all
of the case there is evidence of the
gravity of the situation.
All officials agree that the acrumu-
lation of evidence has brought th
situation between the two countries to. "It must be remembered that larr.O
the point of a break or a decided . has been one of Villa's str niio!.l
change on Germany's part. As the and contains many Villistas." said
president and the cabinet are deter-: Gavira. "When the American an
minei! that the present condition can-. peared it would have been easy for
not continue, the crisis which has pre- the Villi-tas to make the innoiant -vailed
telween the two nations for Heve ihit the Americans intended to
nearly a year has reached a point
where action must take place.
Germany mention,, nothing in the,
v. ay of time, and the President has not !
decided to narrow the case down to a
matter of days, but the position or the .
United States will be none the less un
alterable on that account. Only a dls-'
closuie or the exact terms or the doc-.
ument can show what are the possi
bilities tor the next development.
CARRANZA ENTERS MEXICO CITV
i ca.i troops and Mexicans have alarmed
MEXICO CITV. April 14. The city Americans liing in Mexico as is
was brilliantly illuminated tonight in evidenced by the arrhal here today
honor of the arrival in the Mexican of a number of United States citizens
capital earlier in the day of General : from Chihuahua City and other pii:it.
Carranza. Large crowds paraded Some or these men fled across the
through the streets. General Carran-, border alter the Santa Isabel massacre
za met his ministers in a conference but later returned in the wake of
at the National palace and later he ,no i niu.j states soldiers. They all
appeared o nthe balcony or the palance rei,, to discuss conditions in tbe
under the liberty bell and addressed intPrior beyond saving tor the present
thethrongs in the square below. Gen th pr,.rerred to mair, on the north
eral Obregon. minister or war stood at ! , , international border.
General Carranza s side while he,
spoke. i Some or the arrivals Irom ChihuH-
General Carran.a assured his hear-' n,m reported that lighting had taken
ers that the sovereigntv, honor and Pare between American troops and
dignity of Mexico would be guarded Mexicans at Satevo. tony-five miles
inviolate and exhorted them to work,801"" of Chihuahua City This Osht
patriotically for reconstruction, thens was believed to be the attack on
first Important steps of which they a supply train by Villistas reporte.1
were about to witness. His remarks by General Pershing as having taken
were-frequently applaused. (Continued on Page SI
LACK DETAILS
1 OF FIGHTING
;i AT PARRM
! m i miiim.
in
! Various Rumors Had at Sev
era! Border Points As to the
Number of Americans Kill
ed in Attack.
ANTE TO NEAR 150
Several Versions of the Affair
' -f . e
nave Lome 10 nonce or mil
itary Authorities. None
Have Been Confirm ecL
(By Review Leased Wire.;
EL PASO. April 14. Th- uiyster."
over what happened at Parral. wher
American troops are reported to have
clashed with Mexicans on Wednesday.
on Wednesday this message onl.v
served to make the sit,ii.tUn n-ore
perplexing. The most plausible e
planation was offered in an account
brousht here today by an American
from Chihuahua City. This man said
the trouble started when two Anieri-
Major Tomkins to make ariaugeuw nis
for the purchase of supplies. Their
presence aroused the people of the
city who had already teen vio!en:ly
agitated by reports that the advailcln
American troops- were gulns to take
. "men. "s passeu quie.iy inrougn too
: city.
' This report was given a good deal
of credence here on account of it
source, but there was no possibility
of verifying it any more than any of
the nther renurf mhiili rni.eil from
3 complete massacre of the American
soMiers , bloodier massacre of
Mexicans.
General Gavira said tonight that he
had received no reports to indicate
i'e I'vrral incident had nitlameU ti.'
people in the district over which he
commands.
capture anil hold their town. This
evidently happened."
1 Gavira said he had received no
I oilier telegrams, official or informal,
' relatiug to the I'arral affair.
News reported at headquarters to
day that the Present Kaiich in the
Parral district was robbed esterdiy
by bandits, who, however, did not
shed any blood.
I The request cf General Ccrranza
for the withdrawal of the American
troops, the Parral incident and re
, ports of other clashes between Ameri-
