vA3
I
iY
K
"
hb INDEPENDENT
NONPARTISAN
4(o
CsLid
W
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
3JAdvacAle
jV
t
Vol. III. No. 52
CINCINNATI, OHIO, APRIL 15, 1916
---Jr f -5-
WAy "Does Friedlander
Discriminate Between Public and Private Gambling? Why Are Big
Clubs and Hotels Permitted to Have Gambling and Sitting Rooms,
While the Privilege Is .Denied to Those in the West End and "Over
the Rhine"? A Few Campaign Promises That Are Broken.
There's an old man lying on his death
bed up in Burnet Woods, who started
in )ifq away behind nothing and whose
success was attained by the fact that
he had the moral courage to speak his
mind and whenever he gave his word
he kept it.
Notwithstanding that he was fought
by capitalists, newspapers, ministers, and
others, this simple process brought to
hjm the leadfrslup of his party, and ,jhe
rdnk ynd lilt, had a&soliite lonlidence' in
In-, opinions.
If, before the election he sent out
word that there would be a more liberal
policy in the future, or that conditions
would remain the same, and his party
was successful, he saw that these prom
ises were carried out.
There was no side-stepping to Geo.
B. Cox:; he told you plainly yes or no
and it went.
What are the cqnditions today? Every
man about town knows that the ward
workers of the Republican party prom
ised certain people that Cincinnati would
have a more liberal policy if Puchta was.
elected. "Over the Rhine" they cited
that he was a German and believed in
liberal principles; they reminded the
saloon keeper that Puchta was born in
Cincinnati and understood that the Ger
mans playing cards in a saloon for a
glass of beer was an innocent amuse
ment, all of which seemed logical, and
laiger majority than any pre ious'lflayor'.
Now, what arc the results?
After the election the Republican
Campaign Committee, composed of gen
tlemen, none of whom could carry their
own precinct, wished the job of safety
directoi on Walter J. Friedlander, a
business man, who h.ul taken no part in
getting the ote, had no idea of how it
was secured, never heard of the promises
made in order to elect Puchta but a
clean fellow with good intentions and a
determination to carry out the law ac-
cording to the lights before him. i
But the result is, nevertheless, that the
Republican party elected Puchta under
false pretenses.
Does Mr. Friedlander know that gam
blers subscribed to the Republican cam
paign fund In spending their money to
elect Puchta? Docs .Mr. Friedlander
know that handbook men and saloon
keepers over the Rhine subscribed to
the same fund in the same way? Docs
Mr. Friedlander know that this class of
people induced their friends to vote and
spend their money to elect Puchta? If
not, he should look at the election re
turns and see where the majority came
from.
Mr. Fricdlawlct, in his telegram from
French Lick, says: "When this admin
istration took office it decided to stop
public gambling."
That is correct all gambling should
be stopped but win side-step the great
er part of the gambling that is going on
in ( incmiiati '
You say public gambling should stop :
what's the matter with private gambling?
As an officer of the law, can )ou draw
that distinction?
Why do jou allow Inn tcicd chilis,
such as the Queen City, the Itiishicss
.Men's Chili mid those operating in
out' hotels to i mi without molesta
tion, null Jon retuse to rcrogiiic the
same kind ol chili chatters in the
West Mud?
Do.V on know thai Wurrincr, ol the
Itig Four, and a lew others were
skinned out ol mole moiie.v at the
Queen Citj (Mill), than could be pos
sible 1 happen in all the small clubs
combined lor (he past twenty ears','
Do you know that there ate more
fin tl sharks today in the Queen Citj
and other such clubs than ever lie-
lore? because (bat is the only place
they (an operate sum csslully.
Why should the hotels be allowed
to run sittings rooms and charge a
woman ii5 cents lor a Mayme Taj -lor,
when a (ici'iimn woman is ar
rested and put in the wagon if she
bit) s a glass ol beer in a saloon over
the Kbine?
It is not the fault of the police, they
will break it all up if you so instruct
them.
Dan Bauer knew that the Republican
Campaign Committee altered the West
One DollarVa Year
jl-A-Sk.
The Queen City
Should Do As Well As Toledo Did. The Street Car
Strike in That City Settled. The Men Get 30 to 32
Cents an Hour Seven Hours Work. The Citizens
Get Six Tickets for a Quarter What Are You Going
To Do, Mr. Schoepf?
Toledo, 0. For the first time m thir
teen dajs, the city has street car service.
All the cars were started at 7 .110 this
morning. In each car there was posted
a notice, that beginning April 10, cash
fare would lie five cents, and tickets will
be sold at the rate of six for twenty
five cents, The three-cent rate, which
has been c(Tevttvfyom ."i:o0o TCt a.
in. and 4 r.10 to G&O'p. in. is abolished.
During the entire tie-up there was no
violence and not one report of any dis
order as a result of the strike was made.
The final agreement between the To
ledo Railwajs & Light Company and the
Amalgamated Association of Street and
Electric Railwajs Employes, was ratified
at a mass meeting of the car men. The
men arc denied the privilege of wearing
the union button.
The company vv ill continue to conduct
its business on the open shop plan with
no discrimination between union and
non-union men. The men receive an im
mediate increase of wages of three cents
an Hour, i lie new maximum tor ex
perienced men is HO cents an hour. In
1117, they will receive 31 cents, and in
191S, 3'J cents. It is possible for the
compay to increase fares without con
sent of the city as it has no franchise
and can fix its own rates.
Attornejs for the city said they could,
of course, bar the company from fur
ther use of the streets but this will not
be attempted.
A trustee for a betterment fund for
the Toledo Railways & Light company
was appointed -by Fedcjtl ledge- Gi'JiVy
sodit after the thirteen dajs tie-up of
the street car system was adjusted and
the operation of cars resumed.
The judge held that, even though he
had denied the city's application for a
recciv er for the company, he still has
jurisdiction over the property. Repre
sentatives of the company announced
that the abolishment of the three-cent
fare periods during rush hours, morning
and evening, will produce a yearly in
crease of revenue of $300,000 or an in
crease of twelve per cent. Half will go
to the carmen in increased wages. Judge
Killit's order provides that six per cent
of the gross weeklj- income from oper
ation of cars shall be turned over to
Captain John Craig, as trustee, and used
exclusively for unusual betterments and
purchase of new cars.
. -Kfiffimrr M-vrvriio lriirfil
f ,- Mmjim.m.jK.'mm.MZ m. i.-iaixii vyi u.f .- ..
r),-C&!a'!to. - -
Hold Regular Meeting The Matter of Demanding
Working Cards Is Still Being Pushed Vigorously.
Anti-Preparedness Committee Invite the Council to
Their Meeting Saturday Night.
MATT GLASER
WHO WILL DEFEAT GOVERNOR WILLIS
Matt ilaser, who is i mining lor delcgutc-ut-laige on strictly Anti
Willis platloi-m, is to be admired lor the stand lie has taken against the
(ioveruor, whom he shows up as u double crosser to the cause ol oigan
ied labor.
Mr. (ilaser denounced the (iovciunr recentlj, in Ills paper. The Cin
cinnati Republican. He showed how lie bad tieated the miners in the
Hocking coal fields, lie exposed bis hand in the eight-hour bill, the
lice text-book bill and numerous other bills that would have been ol
inteiest to the laboring classes. !
Mr. (ilaser stands on a clean iccord as a h lend to the laboring man. j
lie has alvvajs been iiiteiesied in union labor and it is a well-known tiut
that in every campaign which .Mr. (ilaser has conducted, in nuiiij yeais
past, in Cincinnati, lie has alvvajs demanded that all liteiatuie used
should bear the union label. I0eii the cuts that were used in his paper j
and on all Ilteratuie hole the stamp of the unions.
II should be a pleasuie to the union labor inaii and .ill laboiing
classes to go to the polls on April U5th ami demand a Itepiiblican ballot
to vole lor Matt (ilaser, the iriend ol' the laboiing mini and one ol tliej
I ank and llle, as a di'lcgute-at-laige to the llepubllciiii National Conven
tion. Mr. (ilaser's inline will appear Hist on the ollleinl ballot.
The meeting of the Building Trae. .,
Council was called to order, with Vice
President Fischer in the chair.
I he minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted communica
tion from the Ceramic and Encaustic
hie Layers' Local No 11 announced
that Henry Hitsehniever and CKcar Pink
crton had been elected delegates to the
Council. Iloth brothers being present,
they were duly obligated.
The following communication was
read, and upon motion, was received
and filed :
Cincinnati Committee.
' The Truth About Preparedness"
Mass Meeting Music Hall
Mi Fred Hock, Seeretaiy, lHulding
Trades Council, Cincinnati. Ohio.
Dear Sir We desire to call your at
tention to a very important meeting,
which will be held in Mumc Hall. Cin
cinnati, on Saturday evening, pril 13th
s j ou will observe from the circular
which is herewith enclosed, the general
topic for discussion at this meeting will
be " 1 he Truth bout Preparedness."
We are quite certain that the membvs
of vour local will be interested in the
announcement ot speakers to appear at
this inciting, which contains the names
of Rabbi Stephen Wise. James II. Maur
er, nios Pmcliot. Oswald Garrison Vil
ard Sou will observe that the second
speaker in this list, Mr Maurer. is the
eli.uiman of the l'eniisvlvaiua State
Fidciatioii of Labor, and as such is
competent to speak from the point of
view of the labor interests in this coim-
I'nd railroad franchise in the interests
of the Traction Company and he de-1
serves credit for resenting it, he should
have stopped theie, but he kniw what
had hem promised before elietiou, and
he knew that these promises had been
n tntili.'iteil.
The rest of the ward leaders, instead
of telling "the gents" that they must I
keep their campaign pledges, thej sit
down on Mattel , who says "the matter
is closed," which is a complete sur
render. Dan llaucr should have gone to the
I ruction Company and thej could have J
passid the word down the hue and
every thing would have been rosy
The idea of gentlemen double cross
ing and taking advantage of gamblers
is as old as the lulls, and if it were not
for that condition the race tracks would
have failed long ago. The gentleman
who would not allow a tout in bis ofiice
will go to a race track and follow any
stoiy told to him so long as be can cheat
the book-maker, but m most cases the
book-maker saw him coming.
If Geo li Cox had anything to do
with Friedlauder's appointment be would
either keep the campaign promises or
lose his job
try He is well and favorably known in
Cincinnati and we feel quite sure that
members ot the various unions will wel
come this opportunity to bear him on
this occasion. The committee on ar
rangements for this meeting includes
several men who are members of the
Central Labor Council of Cincinnati.
We are taking the liberty of asking
you at the next meeting of your local
"to be good enouch to call this meeting
to the attention ot your members and to
explain to them some of the conditions
under which this meeting is held, as out
lined in the folder, which is enclosed
We feel that it is very desirable to hold
a meeting of this ort m order to set
before the people of the country the real
tacts wiucn are iieninu tne prepareuuess
movement at present.
e earnestly hope that this meeting
will enlist your sympathetic interest and
we ask you to put forth every eftort jou
can possibly make, to assure the siicce-s
of this important meeting.
Yours truly,
D. S. OLIVtK.
Chairman
All trades reported business good
Under 'good and weltare" the matter
of the rank and tile demanding the
working card was acain discussed, and
tlie secretary instructed to notify all
locals that they must see that their in
dividual members carry out its instruc
tions. There being no turther business be
fore the meeting, the Council adjourned
to next I hursday night
AMilAXCi: KI1AKS STKIKC
Tiiorniii:.
I1 VOKS VACATIONS.
Alb my, N Y ssciiiblyinaii Hess
his introduced an ameiiiluunt to the
public "liners' law whi'"h makes man
datory the provision giving each em
plove of llle State a two weeks vaca
tion auuuallv
Itelieved That Company Will 13m- (
ploy St i ike-ltieakeis. ,
i
Mhance. O Refusing tb recognize
the car nuns union, but virtually agree
ing to meet the wage demands of the
Stark Electric Railroad men. but not to
consider the CTev eland. Mhance and Ma
honing alley trainmen, President
Charles R Morlev left this morning for
Cleveland. The car men have not yet
accepted Morlev "s terms Not a wheel
: moved on the 72 miles of trackage to
day Trouble is feared, as the company
has laid in a supplv of cots and blankets
at its car barns and strike-breakers are
believed to be in the city Manager
Mow rev has posted a notice that all
Stark trainmen who fail to report to
day for their regular runs will be con
sidered no longer in the employ of the
company .
CLEVELAND'S LOW FAKI1 Is IV
l)A.(ii:U.
Contiovcisj ou Between the Com
pany and Employes.
Cleveland, O The three-cent fare is
apparentlv menaced by the controversy
between 'the Cleveland Railroad Com
pany and its cinploves President Stan
lev announces that if be is forced to ac
cede to the demands of the men. he will
have to kill the three-cent fare
f
