VOTE FOR' LOUISIANA, DEMOCRACY AND PLEASANT--STAMP THE ROOSTER
The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV ST. FRANOtWILLA W lT PELICIANA PARISN LOUWANA, SATURDOAY, APRIL I1S, 1¶9 NO. 11
. n l .- - -. . - .. .. - . . - - - -
LET YOUR CONSCIENCE BE YOUR SUIDE
EDUCATIONAL FORM OF APPL ICATION P1
Warsd . Sqlare Nod2P 4iaJ
Jud. t B. D s% , fte E M. J M . -R ?-,
I smuo c id rtha nt he Statc o ot Prougim* 11 !M. T
bra e iin eih I IIII ....
eratioae, decided that n could s t dPrei v. n em ti he ppo.
Judge 1 3. hDubuisen, after delib Mr. Jhn M. Parker. regiotre4 a a
remn as a candidater on the Proigree Prolresmive vOter l t to n nalskn
inDemocrat who took part tn te Dome
live ticket for the reason that he had cratic primary to vote for him h hi
registered as a Dempcrat and had par- laskin thoem to perpotato a Wiseh of
ticipated in tho Democratic primary, fait-te Ido that which nIr would not do.
The Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana gave de
liverance, in an unanimous decision in State vs. Michel, 121
La. Page 387, to the principle which governs the primary
election. The Court declared:
"The voter, by participating in a primary, impliedly promises and
hinds himself in honor to support the nominee, and a statute which
exacts from him an express promise to that effect pdds nothing to his
moral obligation and does not undertake to add anything to his legal
obligation. The man who cannot be held by a promise which he knows
he has impliedly given will not be held by an ex rews romise."
cDemor nts who votud in the recent primary thereby confirmed their choice
of party atfiliation, alredady subscriled to by them before the Registrar of
Voters. if they had so desired, they could, according to the registration law,
have changed their party affiliation.
The Judges of the Sulneme Court of iouisiana have unanimously declared
that the voter who participatesd in a rirY by so doing impliedly promises
and is in honor bound to support the nominees of such primary. But it does
not reqcuire a judicial mind to determine the rectitude of a personal matter so
self.evident.
It is, however, lsurprisi that the moral obligation thus resting on Dem.
j wrati: v(otrs should he disregarded by a candidate for the high offiw e of
S(;vernor of Iouisiana and an appeal made to them to disavow such an
Wouldt ietlothn M. Parker fulfill a moral obligation? If he would not,
woultdin he be the right kind of ta man to bue Governor of Louisiana?
Should Mr. Parker ask you to (co something which he would consider it
beneath himself to (10)?
When Mr. Parker apelIals to the voters who participated in the Democratic
iprimary to vote for him he thus asks them to violate not only their party
allcgianc'e, hut to) do something, which, in the language of the Supreme Court,
he "bindD himoself in honor" nopt to (.
If ni)oal b ,ligations are not binding in political matters Ton your part. why
should they o\ bIinding on his? If he should be elected Governor, why should
y)u expect his pro',mises to Ihe fulfilled?
Can purity inl plo(liti(E he Ipreached by an appeal for double-dealing and
flagrant disregard f carndinal principles of honesty in political matters?
'rliet' questions are forced before us by Mr. Parker's course in this
campailgn. The vcoters of the State cannot, in justice to themselves, leave
them unanswered. let yyoiur conscience be your guide,
SO TO THE POLLS NEXT TUESDAY AiD SiTAMP TUE ROOITEE
Pollowlan the suggestion made by
this paper, last week, that prospective b
eendidatee for Distriet Judge and Dl- o
triat Attorney of the :4th Judicial Die)s
triet take the people into their con- It1
dance and let the voters know how b
they stand in the presentassaultagarnat
the Democratie party, we are pleased a
to acknowledge replies from Judge t,
t'has Kilbourne. who expects to be
come a candidate for Judge, and from
Judge Joe. L. Golsan. M. 8. Taylor and
t'hl-. I. molaaan who expert to hi ,'
eandidates for District Attorney. The'
ailsweri of these gentlemen spelk for I
tlemselves.
Judgel Kilblutrne says "As you kind
iy furnish the opportunity I gladly take.
dv ;tI -ts, of iI to annountlce that I aill
Ie,' a (allndidale for the Democratic I
nominatiotl for District Judge Iln the
primary Ilt'dion. which will be called
in due season As I have been perfectly
satisfied to be a Democrat for all the
smany years sine" I cast my first vote,
and as the principles of no other party
appeal sou trongly to me, I stand un
equivocally with the party and Its
nominee.' in the present contest "
.tIdge (olson. who expects to be a
candidate for Distriet Attorney, says:
"I am a Democrat, always have beain
i)tnmocrat and always expect to be a
Democrat. There are no half-way
measurse with me. I believe the beast
interests of lousltana lie In the Demo
cratie party, and I am doing all I can
for the sInues of the party and its
noeineesl"
M. 8. Taylor, candidate for Distriet
Attorney "Ilae there seems to be a
misappreheas on with some as to the
gubernatorial aspirant for whom I in
lad to east my vote in the coming
general eleetion. I trust that you will
be kind enough to lend the publicity
to this statement that your valuable
paper assures. I tdvieed Mr. Parker.
abeore his nannoacemeat, that I would
not vote for him If he ran on the Pro
grelssve ticket, and I advised Mr.
Pleasant that I would vote for him
througheut. I voted for Mr. Pleasant
to the primary, and I am goiag to vote
for him In the general election, neat
Tuesday."
('has. L. Munson: "Taking advantage
of your offer, I take pleasure in an.
nouncing my eandidacy for the omee
of District Attorney of the 14th JudicIal
District, subject to the action of the
Democratic party. While a number
of my friends are supporting Mr.
Parker. I wish to make it clear that I
am not, and that I desire to go on
record as a Democrat. still fighting for
reform within the party."
DEMOCRACY RIND8 TRUE.
(SBhreveort Journal )
It may be coneeded for the sake of
argumnt that tbere mIght be oaeastons
when a primary pledp would ember
ran the cause of good goverAnment
C('onditran milght arie euabsequent to
a primary election that would appeal
strongly for a change of politicalJ faith
;n the part of voters who obilgated t
themselves by partiipating In the I
primary contest. Nominees might bew
shown to be unworthy of public conaS
dance Majorities are not Ifallible; !
mistakLe may be made lan party alsoe I
tlon, Btut no such situation obtains In
ioulalana. What the Democratie nom
Inee were before January i5, they are
today Their charcters have not
chanlgd, there has been no new publih
Indletment of theihr fitness. Nothing
that could operate to their detriment,
nc*alerd befor e the primary, has been
dislosed since the primary An over
whelmingl majority of the voters of the
state passed judgment on the Demo
cratic lnominee on the 26th day of Jan
uary With the lights before them. the
people selected them The lilghts have
not slnc.* changed
AS VIEWED IN TnE COUNTRY.
Slomaer Gualrdan-Journal I
We do not admit that we are bonad
and lgagged by one man or any eat of
men. And It Mr. Parker lives in a
parish or commeanity where one man
or a few men hold the bil stick over
him, and compels actions at their
plaeareo, he should pick up sad move
away from there. We ~aould be ashamerd
to claim Cttisenshlp In sata a eommon
wealth Let him come up to (tliborse:
we are not bosed up here. But each
and every one of the 1.000 reglstered
voters Ia separate. dlstinct sovereirgn
bos over hmlaself.
RI Safet PIs-,t-ltep tkh Ie
DEOCRATE1 LEARDER NI
COWF1ET 0F TOR
Ikmmocracy is ready for the battle of
ballots which will be decided through. In
out Louisiana on Tuesday nett. Ti
In every perish the great hosts of vc
the Democratic party are awaiting the na
hour when they will go to the polls TI
..d by stamping the fighting emblem in
of their party, testify in unmistakable at
terms their unshaken faith in the prin. 114
Iples of )e*ucrascy and in the In. l
'grity of Its uiomniees
inl Ne Orleans, nuletnrlet offers of fr
,@fnu-nlou.'y betn that the Ihfnl'crratle tI
jourity In ('addo perish aloln will ie I
as large as that pulled for Parker In
tie Third distrie, ha'e twl nimad-, but ii
'orll of th" It)o tiai i t P| rkwritt.s are
SliirIn to tbrak th*i r boasts u ith ui intoy Ii'
rhisp ttittde on their part is it direct
iotrIt to that assumed facr years
.son by the fullowiers of the varlotuls
tbre"toriai crsdidate. Thousands \1
1 dollaas Pfre bet in N,w (lriean
iltuon the out(t1on of thoe Ilall-Mihell. -
wrll criltcampaign during the tlast fea t
weeks before election day
In a statement. issued this aekh.
Philip Writp!n, of New Orleans. vice
hlairtman of the Utkmocratlc iState (''n"
tral Committee predicts that Col. Ruf
in I". Pleasant's total majority will
flit be less than 40,004)
Mr. Werlela statement follows:
The reglistered vote of the State
shows somewhat more than 200,000.
Of these, about 50,000 for various re.
sons are not eligiple to vote; of the
remainder, ertainly 125,000 will go
to the polls on the 18th. The total
relastered Progrelive and Republican ti
strength is 3,6)0 Some of these can b
not vote, from failure to pay poll tax a
for two years Of the 123,000 votes to e
be east, there will be a majority for the 6
Democratic noimeea , Col. Pleasant, of ,
not leao than N,000, according to a
careful analysis forecasting as over.S
whelmiag Democratie vote nla the Pirst, a
Second, Poeth and Pithb districts, e
with splendid added majoritles from r
the Iixth, Seventh sad Eilhth districts. pI
"The Third district is doubtful. The d
estimate for the Third district by Mr. A
Peterman, the Progressive manager. Is L
not to be taken seriously In a conserva- v
ivtle analysis. There Is very good n
reason to believe that the Third die I
trict will again prove itself a Demo. C
ratic district. The campaign estimates
issued by the Progressives are mere C
campaign exaggerations to be used an e
connection with their threats of shot- d
pins, bloodshed and riot. The forlorn s
hopes of the national Progressive party a
will be blasted by a militant Democracy o
fittingly celebrating the natal month of 4
Thomas Jefferson, Demoeracy's peer- .
onlss leader." 1
l eo ltt, rulod ll the
tl
test books now in use in the publlc 4
soIhols of the Stalte, with the exception
of the Isanguap series, the readera the,
spellers. aed the writing books,
SThe Alwell spellere were not adopt
cd, and no spelling books will be ,
iadopted In their place. The ehildrre n
I will uswe spelling lists furniLabed by the I
r department of edueation. The writting
I books wpre thrown out, and none will ,
be sed. I
SThe Hyde's Ilnguage. by (' D. Heath
and Company, were not recommended
Sfor re-adoption but in its place MCe
Paddes's Ianguage by Rand McNally.
Saed the present ser ies of readers were
. not recommended for adoptIton, but in
e their pice the Klson sertee by icott.
Porereman and ('ompany, anud the
Halton-curry readters by htand. Mec
Naily. The Stllate oard apparently I.
favorable to the IRand McNally lertes
In uaccordance with the committee'
d report, the test hbooks wcre adopt(ed,
a on e rondition, that the publishing
Shouwes accept the 5 per rcent alloyw
I acw ftor books no Is use,. givingl both
a promotional arnd I denmotionatl al.
i chaages.
4Safety Pirst- ltamp the Rooster
SSome one ostas the term. "'a Robert
SBroseaard DemOernt."
What kind le that?
The iad that wll be alipped i the
tId, the seat thie he coma up fr
elentia a a DuIserw .
DEMOCRATS, GO
TOTHE POILS
We desire to impress upon you the
Importance of going to the polls on
Tuesday, April II. and casting your
vote for the Democratic ticket aom.
nated by the people on January 36 last.
The )emo-. atic party for the irst time
in twenty j-ars Is confronted with an
active virile opposition in the Repub
lcan"Progressive candidate, Mr. John
w Parker. The hImocratle ticket ti
't no danger whatever of defeat. If our
fri' 'ds ,do not neglect their duty and
-tly away fromn the polls on election
I W" art' countitlll n you to take a
tlle Owe ttlo It oit onl 0 iletionI day
'd i lc '' ihe ,,l ta of the tlh.im
it w n: IrU oti"t i*i." 4 'oi.tiu'I Pleosant. will
ti' hcrlaid,.d throughout the nation as
, .,4di.rse-int of the splendid admins.
1,itr'itiol of PresIdent Wilson, the first
.,,tlltlernbornt President to crcut y i,.,
,'hlte liouset it' the the ('11 War We
i.,erely trust that .we may have your
h~a:rts csni..ratlon In this Important
mito t'r laid that you ilI remind all
youtir friends and neighbors to do liek
a(I r inst o ortd is "l ot't fall to go"
'htus the lourious victory is won, yo:i
a;i. then with a feeling of satisfaction
ay "I did my part."
Yours very truly.
1. N. TIHOMAS. Chairman
Iemocratle State Central Committee
MEETING OF LOUISIANA DAIRY.
MEN AND SWINI IBRIDIRS.
Two April aetings that are of more
than ordinary interest to the swine
breeders and dairymen of Luisiatna
are those of the lrouisaa Swine Breed
ers' Association, at Plaquemine. April
2t, and the Louisiana Dairymen's As
soctation, at New Orleans. April 21.
The speakers at the SwIne BrAden'
meeting will Inelude i. C. Stone, here
tary American Hampshire Swioe Breed.
era' Association; Robert J. vae See
retary. Americas DiuroJersey SIIne
Breeders' AssocatiLo, and L N. 3rw
gerhofl. $cretary Louiiaa te State Pair.
A. R. Moist and Turner Wright, of the
Louisiana Live Stock Iatension Set'
vice, will also address the meeting.
K. I.. Jordan, of the Iouisiana State
University. Is secretary of the ANsa
elation.
Hugh 0. Van Pelt. of Iowa; J. H. Me
(lain, of the II. S. Department of Agr
culture, and Dr. Oscar Dowling. Prel.
dent louisiana State Board of Health.
will address the Dairymen's meeting,
which will be held in the Anseelatin
of Commerce Building. New Orleans
4 visit will be made to the dairy of
J. K. Newman at Donaidonvillle where
Professor Van Pelt will give a dairy
(cow demonstration. using a number of
the, splendid Holatesin and Jelre seows
from the Newman herd for that poer
pose. Purther information eoseerain
this metlin tein be had by addrenng
t' IIH taples. Luosatna Statie UniveOar
lity. kBaton Rouga, L,
NO INDOSPNOEN? DEMOCRATS
(New Orleans States.
When th. voter enters the pollinl
booth on April II he will ulnfold a
ballot on wh!h he will find two party
emblems, one of them the Rooster, the
ether the HBull Moos
ItBnueth the Roloster he will AInd thi
naes of Rufilt ( Pleasant and lh.
etmonorstle nomlnes duly chosen in r
Ilegal primary
I U'nder the Mooe he will find the
I names of John M Parker and Edwin .
Hriu.sard. who were nomitnated In a
s oralled Progresive ronvention in
whilh itfelongl Rtlpublhcans were con.
spieotis figures.
He will stamp one or the oither of
Sthee*. emblems and .e wIllt merre
Sfronet the borh a Iktmocrat or a Pro
greeLv.
I .elt no Ian labor under the delItiIon
that he can vsote as In "independent
SDemocrat "
If he stamps the Moose he aitutomatt
.gllv hlsnwl htmaelf a Progreeslve aind
I he ran only ontinue to caill himelf a
l )emnocrat if he stamps the Rooster
h Premier Aleqlith dclares that the
I' ntent allies are prepared for peace
only on the terms of his declaration of
November, 1914. and spIlIaed ilthat
when he aspoke of the dtruetlon ofat
the mltitary doaination of PrusLia. he
meantI that the AIIIs Intended to es.
! tabliab the pitacipleo that Internatloal
probIems must be handled by free
septiatoess n equald terms betwnee
fre peoples
Seasi Irhb-Itbmp nth hester.
