nV MTF Tkl r Tt f I! FV Thu issue of The Menace mirkj our fifth inniver-
UUU E YAmS OLP Since ArriMS. 1911. TheMenhubetn
. M K umr w ' through some hard battle and u ret rtiJy for injr
emergency which may arise in the conflict between American freedom and Romish dwnotiim. To those who by
their loyal tupport and unswerving allegiance to the cause have made long stride toward the overthrow of popery
xitsihle, we with to extend our congratulations. To you men and w omen of the Firing Line the weewse that
ave come to the movement are due. We hope to find you in the front rank every day of the new year or until
ome is routed. Let u make this year memorable for it successes in the fight we are waging against political
tome. Two million tub before the fall elections will do the work.
8 fijr TV T Jv T ! Number 260 g
ne oaiispDires to Force CJs Douto RfleDcoS
A Most Astounding Plot Formed In the United States to Re-establish the Roman Catholic Church in Power in
Mexico An Attempt to Plunge this Nation Into War in Order to Gratify tho Ambitions of
the Roman Catholic Hierarchy Here and in Bleeding Mexico
Honorable Woodrow Wilson,
. President of the United States.
Your Excellency being charged as Chief Execu
tive of the United States with the responsibility of en
forcing the laws of the nation, we deem it our duty
to lay before you information which, if true, touches
and concerns our country's welfare in a most vital
and dangerous way.
We are informed and believe that the Roman
Catholic hierarchy is now and has been for more than
one year last passed actively engaged within the tcrri-
ARCHBISHOP JOSE MARIA MORA T DEL BIO
ef Matiro, Eel of th Catholic Church and tb Clerical Partjr in Meiico, Who it Now
In th United 8utc.
tory of the United States fomenting and inciting rev
olution in the Republic of Mexico, and attempting to
bring about a state of war between the Republic of
Mexico and the United States of America.
We are informed and believe that the conspira
tors desire the intervention of the United States of
America in the affairs of the Republic of Mexico in
order that the Roman Catholic church may remain
the political and civil power in said Republic of Mex
ico from which it was driven by the reform laws of
said republic.
We are informed and believe that secret meet
ings of these conspirators have been held in various
cities of the United States, to-wit: New York City,
Baltimore, Maryland; Washington, D. C.; San An
tonio, Texas and New Orleans, Louisiana.
We are informed and believe that Archbishop
Jose Maria Mora y del Rio of Mexico City and Bishop
Castcllanos of the State of Campeche of the Republic
of Mexico, have been put foward by the hierarchy as
the ostensible leaders of these plotters against the
peace and tranquility of the United States of America
and the Republic of Mexico.
We are informed and believe that these two men
had a conference in the City of New Orleans, Louisi
ana, with Cardinal James Gibbons of Baltimore.
Maryland, and that within a few days thereafter at
This petition has been presented
by Gilbert O. Nations, Vice-President
of The Free Press Defense League, to
President Wilson, and copies have
also been placed Inthe hands of every
member of Congress, and United
States Senators.
the home of Enrique Fernandez Castello, St. Charles
Avenue, New Orleans, Louisiana, an organization
was formed, known as "The Mexican Peace Assembly
Movement," with branches in Los Angeles and San
Diego, California; Albuquerque and Columbus, New
Mexico; Nogales and Phoenix, Arizona; EI Paso,
Laredo, Brownsville, Galveston and San Antonio,
Texas; New Orleans, La.; Mobile, Alabama; Tampa,
Florida; Washington, D. C; New York City and Balti
more, Md.
We arc informed and believe that these branches
were established, and men named to be in charge of
each; that Fernandez Somellera was named to be in
charge of the movement in New York City; Ismacl
Zuniga was appointed to Washington; Federico Gam
boa was given charge over the branches in New
Orleans and San Antonio, Texas.
Wc arc informed and believe that "The Mexican
Peace Assembly Movement," hereinbefore referred
to. had, at the time of its organization, TWENTY
THOUSAND ARMED, ORGANIZED AND OFFI
CERED MEN IN BANDS OF FROM EIGHT HUN
DRED TO TWO THOUSAND, consisting of both
cavalry and infantry; that these forces were located
in various parts of the Republic of Mexico ready to
participate in the revolution the moment the hier
archy gave the word; that these bands, at the direc
tion of the conspirators, arc now engaged in revolt
against the Government of Mexico.
We are informed and believe that after the meet
ing hereinbefore referred to, where it is claimed the
Mexican Peace Assembly Movement was organized,
fifty-one men, whose names arc in our possession, met
in the City of New Orleans, and signed a petition ad
dressed to General Felix Diaz, Hotel Aberdeen, New
York City, urging him to head a counter revolution
in the Republic of Mexico, and promising among
other things, the following: "Behind you wc will put
all the resources of those parties with which wc are
united."
We are informed and believe that after this peti
tion was sent to General Felix Diaz, he went to the
City of New Orleans and there conferred with the
conspirators who signed the petition to him, and on
February 16, 1916, the said General Felix Diaz, after
conferring with the conspirators aforementioned, se
cretly left the City of New Orleans, and went to
Tampa, Florida, thence going by boat to Ticrra, Colo
rado, State of Vera Cruz, in the Republic of Mexico,
and there started the revolution which had been
planned against President Carranza.
We are informed and believe that Francisco
Beltram, Jr., was sent twice from the City of New
Orleans , Louisiana, to Agua Prieta, Republic of Mex
ico, since January 1st, 1916, to confer with Francisco
Villa, the unspeakable bandit and murderer, in an
effort to induce said Francisco Villa to commit such
acts of violence against citizens of the United States
of America as would compel intervention by the
United States; and we sAiccrely believe that the raid
by Francisco Villa and his murderous band on Colum
bus, New Mexico, was the outcome of conferences
which said Francisco Bcitram, Jr., had with the said
Villa.
We are informed ancl believe that the revolution
ary plotters have deliberately set out to plunge this
nation into war with the Republic of Mexico, by
arousing enmity between the people of the sister re
public, and to this end have had their agents and rep
resentatives along the border between the United
States and Mexico manufacture and send out to the
people of the United States, deliberate and wilful lies
in regard to what was taking place across the border
in the Republic of Mexico, and also sending false and
lying statements into the Republic of Mexico as to
what was taking place among the people of the
United States of America.
Your petitioner is further informed and believes
that Cardinal James Gibbons, hereinbefore referred
to, lately sent James Sclvin, of the University of
Santa Barbara, California, as his representative to
the pope of Rome; that said Sclvins mission is to in
form Pope Benedict of the progress that has been
made by the Roman Catholic hierarchy in re-establishing
the power of the Roman Catholic hierarchy in
the Republic of Mexico, and to receive from the pope
such aid and counsel in regard to said matters as he
may be able to give.
Wc arc informed and believe that the said
Archbishop Mora, hereinbefore named, has taken up
his residence for the time being at San Antonio,
Texas, and from that city is engaged in directing
various activities of the plotters against the peace of
this republic, and that of .Mexico.
We arc informed and believe that the said Bishop
Castcllanos of Campeche, now has his headquarters
in the City of New Orleans, Louisiana, where his
duties are to secure funds and to look after the secret
work of the Roman Catholic hierarchy in the new rev
olution. Your petitioner respectfully represents and
shows that if such conspiracy against the people of
the United States of America and of the Republic of
Mexico exists, as herein mentioned, that all of those
guilty of such conspiracy are liable to punishment
for violation of Section 13 of the Criminal Code of the
United States which reads as follows:
Section 13. "Whoever, within the territory, or
jurisdiction of the United States, begins, or sets on
foot, or provides or prepares the means for, any mili
tary expedition or enterprise, to be carried on from
thence against the territory
or dominions of any foreign
prince or state, or of any col
ony, district, or people, with
whom the United States is
at peace, shall be fined not
more than three thousand
dollars and imprisoned not
more than three years."
Your petitioner is in
formed and believes that the
fact that the Republic of Mex
ico, which has been drenched
with the blood of its people in
one revolution after another
for several years last passed,
i a flttA nTmnaf Aniirolv it 4 Vict
13 UUV UllllUOb VII ill V.J IV "IV
nlnf a nnil intritnifw nf ih Tin- v6
man Catholic hierarchy in the J,
man Catholic church in civil
and political power in said re
nublic And if this be true,
your petitioner respectfully represents that it will be
a monstrous crime for this powerful Christian nation
to allow itself to be driven into the slaughter of the
innocent people of Mexico who desire only peace and
friendship with us.
WHEREFORE, your petitioner prays that an im
mediate impartial and searching investigation be
made to ascertain the truth of all matters herein re
ferred to, and if it be found that such a conspiracy
exists, all who are guilty thereof be promptly and
vigorously prosecuted regardless of rank or station.
THE FREE PRESS DEFENSE LEAGUE.
By its Vice-President and Director of its United States
Capitol Bureau, Gilbert 0. Nations.
JAMES CARDINAL GIBBON'S
Senior Bomia Catholic Cardinal of tha
Hierarchy In tn Unit! State.
EB8B8B
