HE
BARME
VOL. XX NO. 27.
BAltRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, APRIL 15, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
GERMAN GUNS
CLEARING WAY
FORNEWATTACK
French Positions Between
Malancourt Wood and Hill
No. 304, West of Meuse,
Were Subjected to Heavy
Bombardment During the
Night
BUT NO INFANTRY
MOVE WAS MADE
East of the Meuse Only an
Intermittent Bombard
ment Was Carried On,
According to the Official
French Statement Made
To-day
Heavy artillery exchanges continue on
the front before Verdun hut the German
infantry has not returned to the assault.
' Increased activity on the Galician front
is indicated by a statement from the
Austrian war office. Along the lower
Stripa there were several brisk engage
ments for possession of advanced posi
tions, the Russian artillery bombarding
the positions on this front heavily.
In the Austro-Italian campaign it is
reported that attacks were made on each
side. Austrian troops captured an Ital
ian position at Mrzalivrh, beating back
several counter-attacks with heavy losses
for the Italians. Near Sperone the Ital
ians gained the advantages. The Aus
trians abandoned their defensive position
and fell back to their next line.
FEDERAL NITRATE PLANT
Is Proposed in Amendment Adopted By
the Senate.
Washington, 1). (, April 15. Cham
pions of a government hydro-electric
plant to produce nitrate for tlie manu
facture of wht munitions and fertilizer
won their fight in this Senate yesterday
by inserting an amendment proponing an
appropriation of $15,0N,0()u for that pur
pose into the Chamberlain army increase
bill. .The voto wag 43 to 22.
The action disposed of the second biff
contest over the Senate substitute, for
the House armv bill. It was taken in
spite of the contentions of the military
committee that an armv reorganization
measure was no place for water power
legislation. A nitrate water power sec
tion in the House bill was defeated when
the lfay bill was under consideration in
the House so that final determination of.
the issue must await notion by the eon
fcrence committee by the two houses.
Yesterday's notion was bused on an
amendment bv Senator Smith of South
Carolina. It would provide for sale of
Panama ennui bonds bv the government
for raisins? the renin red $f,oo",0(Ml ana
(he president would bo authorized to no
ignate not more than five water power
sites to make them available for power
plants to manufacture nitrates. iTod
ucts of these ulants to be operated ex
clusively by the government not needed
for manufacture of munitions or war
could be disposed of and sold by the sec
retary of war for the manufacture of fer
tilizer "and other useful products."
Over the objection of the military com
mittee an. amendment by Senator Pom-
erene giving military rank to members
of the dental corps was adopted.
Senator Wadsworth urged adoption of
his amendment to require officers and en-
ted men on entering the .National
Guard to take an oath to obev the orders
of both the president and of the governor
of their state. He said the amendment
would strengthen the proposed federal
ization of the National Guard by mak
ing the officers and men federal soldiers
from the moment of enlistment instead
of only in time of war. Senator Cham
berlain was willing to accept the amend
ment, but considerable opposition devel
oped among southern senators.
On a call the vote, for the proposal was
2.1 to 22, less than a quorum, and the
Senate recessed until to-day.
SECOND FIGHT
NEAR PARRAL
IS RUMORED
State Department Received
Advices from El Paso
Which Pointed to Such an
Occurrence, but There Is
No Confirmation of the
Rumors
PERSHING SILENT
FOR THREE DAYS
Funston Is Urging the Com
mander of the American
Forces in Mexico to Report
Oftener, if Possible, to
Keep the Government Ad
vised of Situation
THREE PRISONERS SILENT.
But Five Others Are Said to Have Con
fessed in Fire Bomb Plot.
Paris, April 15. There was no infan
try lighting in the Verdun region last
night. I lie t rench positions w-tween
Malancourt wood and Hill No. 304, west
of the Meuse, were subjected to a heavy
bombardment and there were lively ar
tillery exchanges near the western edge
of the Corbeaux wood. East of the river
an intermittent bombardment was car
ried on.
BERLIN PICTURED
AS PERTURBED
AT SITUATION
Officialdom Is Said to Be Averse to Break
In Diplomatic Relations with United
States, While German Press
Berates Wilson.
London, April 15. The correspondent
at The Hague of the Exchange Tele
graph company sends the following:
Considerable perturbation -is causeu
at the Nerlin foreign office by the wire
less news of American dissatisfaction
with the recent note. The chancellor hag
had several conferences with the Amer
ican ambassador and also discussed the
possibilities with Count Von Burian, the
Atistro-Hungarian foreign minister, who
is now in Berlin. Lengthy instructions
have been sent to Ambassador Herns
torn" at Washington. German officialdom
now seems to strain every nerve in order
to avoid a rupture with the I nitcd
States, while the press continues in the
most flamboyant way to give advice to
J'resident Wilson, publishing, vicious ar
tides and cartoons of the president."
MINE DESTROYED
THE SHENANDOAH
Ship Sailed from St. John, N. B., for Lon
don March 28 Two of Her Crew
Are Missing.
London, April 15. The steamship
Shenandoah has been sunk by a mine,
a Lloyds report says. The captain and
part of the crew have been landed, and
two are missing.
The Shenandoah sailed from St. John,
X. B., for London on March 2S.
WELL KNOWN SCOTCH, EDITOR
Chailes Alfred Cooper of Edinburgh Died
To-day.
London. .April J.". ( hade Alfred Coop
er, for 30 tens editor of the Kdinburgh
St-otilinian. retiring in l!i6, died at
Itotu nomoiitli last night.
New York, April 15. Clews which led
to the identity of the men "higher up"
who provided the money for the alleged
conspiracy to manufacture and distrib
ute bombs to destroy munitions ships
for which eight men are under arrest
are expected by the federal authorities
to tie revealed through the examination
of the bank accounts of Dr. Walter 1
Seheele, who is now being sought.. A
national bank examiner will come hero
from Washington, Assistant lTnited
States District Attorney Rogers B. Wood
said last night, to investigate six ac
counts carried by Dr. Seheele in banks
in Hoboken, ST. J.
"If anybody handled the- big Bums it
was Seheele and we hope to be able to
find where he got it," Mr. Wood said.
Seheele was the head of the New Jersey
Agriculture and Chemical company at
Hoboken, where it is alleged the explo
sive materials were placed in the bombs.
after they had been constructed aboard
the North German Lloyd liner Friedrich
Der Crosse, interned at Hoboken. He
disappeared from his apartment hero
on April 1. The authorities also were in
terested m hnding his secretary, Mi
Kuth Foss, whom they wish to examine.
All except three of the eight men un
der Rrrest have mado confessions Mr.
Wood said. Capt. Otto Worpert, super -
ntendent of the Atlas piers of the Ham
burg-American line, accused of receiving
the completed bombs; (.apt.' Enno Bode,
superintendent of the Ilamburg-Ameri
can line piers at Hobokken, both of whom
were arrested Wednesday, and Carl
Schmidt, chief engineer of the interned
German liner, Friedrich Der Crosse, ar
rested Thursday, have refused to make
any statements to the federal authori
ties. "The silence of these three men," Mr.
Wood said, "indicates they are probably
the most important prisoners of the eight
we have arrested."
The five men who are said to have re
vealed their knowledge and alleged com
plicity in the plots are Krnest Heck
er, electrician on the Friedrich Der
Crosse, Capt. Charles von Kleist, super-
lnteniient of the New Jersey Agriculture
and Chemical eompanv at Hoboken,
where tho explosives arc said to have
been placed in the bombs; Frederick
Praedie, Carl Paradis and Charles Kar
bade, assistant engineers on the steam
er.
Washington, D. C, April 15. Slate de
partment dispatches from F.l Faso to
day refer to unconllrmed reports of a
second fight with American troops at
Parral. General Funston telegraphed the
war department that he had not heard
from Pershing for three days. Secretary
of War Baker said that Funston was
urging Pershing to rush a report on the
i'arral incident.
Funston's message to the war depart
ment was taken to indicate that tho
silence of Pershing was due to inability
to get information, rather than to the
interruption of communication. Funston
has asked Vershitig to report oftener if
possible in order to keep the war de
partment advised.
THE PARRAL FIGHT.
WILLING TO TREAT
WITH CARRANZA
Over Proposal for Removal of American
Troops from Mexican Territory, But
Meanwhile Villa Pursuit
Will Continue.
Carranzistas Attacked Band of 484 Amer
ican Soldiers.
San Antonio, Tex., April 15. The
Americans on whom the Mexicans at
Parral fired were unarmed, according to
an unconfirmed version of the incident
current in Chihuahua and transmitted to
General Funston yesterday.
According to this story, 40 af the
troopers entered Parral presumably to
purchase supplies and were lired on. Two
were killed and the remainder retreat
ed to the main body of troops encamped
outside the city. The attacking force
pursued them and were met by a fire
from the Americans who were using a
machine gun, killing 40 Mexicans.
According to this story the attacking
party comprised Carranza soldiers and
civilians.
WOULD LIMIT U. S. TROOPS.
Washington, D. C, April 15. The
United States is prepared to treat with
General Carranza as proposed in his note
of Wednesday for the withdrawal or
American troops from Mexico, rending
the outcome of diplomatic negotiations,
however, tho status of the expedition
will remain unchanged and the pursuit
of Villa continue.
This was the situation as officially
stated after President Wilson and hi.-.
abinet had considered yesterday the new
phases of the Mexican problem raised
by 'General Carranza's communication.
Secretary Lansing said he was prepared
to take up the matter with tho do facto
government, but would not indicate when
a reply might be sent. Secretary Baker
said no new orders had been sent to
General Funston and that none were un
der contemplation. ; Both secretaries
said there had been no change in the
policy of the administration which
prompted the pursuit of Villa.
Jrom other sources it was learned
that the success of tUe Carranza govern
ment in demonstrating its intention and
ability to continue the pursuit and ex
termination of the bandits should Amer
ican forces be recalled would weigh heav
ily with President Wilson in reaching a
final decision. In that connection, an otli-
ial report from tho commander of the
American forces attacked at Parral, Mex
ico, last Tuesday by Chilians is anxiously
awaited. Gen. C'arranza's information
transmitted yesterday was that his sol
diers had done everything in their power
to stop the firing at the American troops.
nolhcial versions of the incident, how
ever, have asserted that Carranza, sol
diers were among the attackers.
Secretary Lansing would not. say as to i
whether he was prepared to negotiate
with the de facto government with a
lew to the possible fixing of a date for
the withdrawal of American troops. He
indicated that the time element of any
agreement would lie based on what de
veloped in the pursuit of the bandits. As
the administration's attitude is under
stood here, a satisfactory demonstration
by the Carran.a military forces of their
ability to stop once and for all the brig
andage in the border states would see tho
object of the America expedition airom
plished. .
LANSING BUSY
ON FINAL NOTE
Secretary of State Is Expect
ed to Complete Message
in Short Time
GERMANY VIEWS
SITUATION IN ALARM
According to Despatch from
The Hague to Lon
don To-day
Washington, D. C, April 15. Secre
tary of State Lansing to-day continued
work on a statement of the American
case in connection with tho Sussex
steamer and other vessels attacked by
submarines, and the statement will be
forwarded soon to Berlin.
GIVE NAME OF SUBMARINE.
Which is Alleged to Have Attacked the
Sussex.
CONCORD, N. II., HAS
ACCEPTED BILL
So That No Suspension of Work Is Ex
pected When Present Agreement
Expires April 31.
Concord, X. II., April 15. As a result
of meetings of the Granite Manufactur
ers" association on Thursday night and
of the granite worker' vn ions last even
ing, it was expected trmt a new work
ing agreement will go into effect May
1. when the present schedule expires, so
that there will be no interruption of
business at the local quarries and shops.
The men will receive, in the main, what
thev have asked.
FUNERAL OF MRS. ANNIE OLSON
TOWN HALL DAMAGED.
Fire at Peterboro, N. H, Started Near
Heating Apparatus.
Peterboro, X. II., April 15. Fire which
started near the heating apiwratiw in
the basement of the town hall building
late yesterday afternoon resulted, after
three hours, in damage of $I0,ihmi to the
building. The contents of a combined
hardware and grocery store and a drug
store in the bisement were destroyed
with a Ios estimated at ?12.hni.
Three or four inches of snow on the
ground anil the storm hampered the ef
Carranza Official Proposed Only 1,000
Cavalry in Mexico.
Mexico City, April 15. The Mexican
government will insist with inflexible de
termination that any armed expedition
of the L'nited States which enters Mex
ican territory in the guise of a punitive
expedition must be limited to 1,000 men
of one service alone, cavalry, according
to a statement made yesterday by John
Neftali Amador, sub-secretary of for
eign relations.
During the absence of General Candido
Aguilar, minister of foreign relations, in
Qtieretaro, sub-Secretary Amador is in
charge of the foreign office and is con
ducting its course in international af
fairs. "The Mexican government has con
tended in all of its notes to the Washing
ton state department," said the sub-sec
retary, "that the sending of heavy artil
lery and slow-marching infantry on a pu
nitive expedition is illogical, and the
work of the present so called punitive
expedition has more than demonstrated
this, for they have accomplished abso
lutely nothing.
Mexico will and has in all of its com
munications to Washington insisted that
all punitive expeditions must be limited
to certain restricted areas.
TORPEDO MISSED BOAT.
New Viceroy of India Was Carried Away
to Safety.
London. April 15. Tho steamship on
which Baron Chelmsford, the new ti.-eroy
i'li l governor general, wa proceeding to
India nn-uin-esfully attacked by a
submarine which fired a torpedo but
ini-sed. I'iiron Chelmsford was accom
panied by his wife and four daughter
find the Meamship had on boaM an un
usual number of women and children.
fV, ( at.- (,.,.. A In,,. i f I 1,1 11
oiW ami eomKn.tihles in the liard w are " ' " I" T"- ""'"11 pn
Held Yesterday Afternoon from Her Late
Home on Warren Street.
The funeral, of Mrs. Annie Anderson
Olson was held from her late home, 20
Warren fctreet, yesterday afternoon at
2:30. Burial was in the family lot in
Hope cemetery. Bev. J. W. Burnett offi
ciated at the services. Mr. Gladys Brad
ley sang two hymns which .Mrs. Olson
had loved so well, and about which Rev.
Mr. Newell, her pastor, had so often
talked with her. They were "What a
Friend We Have in Jesus" and "Jesus,
Lover of My Soul."
Dr. Bamett, touching on the life just
passed, dwelt on the compiling thought
that had brought her li7e to such a happy
ending. In her last moments she had
told of her perfect vision of heaven, and
of the happy meeting which she would I
have when thev all came there. Words
of his were futile to express the depth
and height to which her soul had wan
dered. In cloning, he gave a part of "In
Momoriam" from Tennyson.
At the graveside there was n short
service and the Scandinavian Brother
hood f America, .of which she was a
member, also held their service. The
pallbearers were V ictor and !croy Ander
son, brothers ; Oscar .Martinson, Algol
Knutson, Frank Huntou and Frank
Hatch. The chief mourners were Mr.
and -Mrs. O. E. Anderson, her parents;
Victor and Lerov. brothers: Aldo Olson.
The request of the United States I her husband, and Mrs. Martinson and
that the present expedition be considered 'familv. The flowers were numerous and
exceptional cannot be agreed to by the j beautiful. Following is a list of the
Mexican government for the verv good i flowers: Pillow. "At Best." familv;
reason that each day of its presence so wreath. "Wife,'' Aldo Olson; anchor,
far inland does bit excite our people. Martinson Estate company and cm
This is being taken advantage of by thcjployes; heart. Mrs. Martinson and fam
enemies of the constitutionalist govern- jily; lilies, neighbors; lilies, Miss Pearl
ment who are endeavoring to stage inci- i IVnsmnrc; wreath, the S. B. of A.. Barro;
dents that will cause grave international 'pillow, the S. B. of A.. Montpelier: car-
complications. nations. .Mr. an1 .Mr, t tiarles knt:ton
"The Parral incident is a case in point. I carnations, ladies and pastor's union
I consider this happening the hist drop 'carnations, Mrs. and Mary Mathews
in the bucket, and helicte that w hen the I carnations, Mr. and Mr. John Norin
Paris, April 15. The American govern
ment is now in possession of the infor
mation obtained by the French govern
ment which led to tho assertion that the
steamer Sussex was torpedoed bv a
German submarine. Full details, even
to the name of the commander and the
number of submarine, have been com
municated privatelv to the American
government by the French government.
The ministry of marine was not pre
pared to make this information public,
but it has Men given not only to the
tinted States but to all other govern
ments interested.
Tho American government also has
been given information concerning the.
statements, said to have been made by
t tie captured oflieer and crew of another
German submarine, which was sunk in
French waters on April 5. It was an
nouneed setni-ofncialiy that this state
merit gives details of the movements of
the submarine which is said to have tor
pedoed the Sussex, with confirmatory
evidence as to the name ot the comman
der and number of the craft.
It is understood that some of the frag
ments of the instrument which caused
t he explosion, which were gathered on
the deck of the Sussex have nnprmtei
on them German letters and words indi
eating the town in which it was made
GOOD AMATEUR ACTING.
MONTPELIER MAN INJURED.
I. W. Irwin Fen Between Boards Again?!;
Girder.
Burlington, April 15. I. W. Irwin of
Montpelier, while attempting to cross the
planks at the Kutland railroad draw
bridge a little before noon yesterday
lost his balance and fell into the water
below the bridge. In falling his head
came in contact with one of the steel
girders. It did not cause him to lose
consciousness, however, and his cries
brought switchmen and yardmen at work
in the railroad vard to his rescue. He
was taken to the Mary Fletcher hospital.
On the way to the hospital the blood
Howed freelv from the push m his head
and his moaiw led the police to think he
was in a serious condition. I pon ex
amination at the hospital it was found
that the man had apparently been over
indulging in intoxicants. His wound was
iressed and his condition tms not con
sidered serious.
MANY LINES OUT OF ORDER.
Wet Snow Interfered with Telephone
System.
The wet snow Friday caused tempo
rary derangement of tho telephone lines
in Barre mid Montpelier, IS linos being
out of commission in Montpelier and "JO
Barre during the dav. All of these
are now being looked after, and with the
exception of two or three in each place
are in working order. The snow was o
heavy and wet that it adhered to the
wires and also covered the trees, bringing
Made "Elopement of Ellen" at Goddard
Seminary a Real Treat.
Mcmbcit of the senior cluss of God
dard seminary presented their cluss
play,-"The Elopement of Kllen," before
a good-sixed audience in the seminary
chapel last evening. The play, a tarcu
oniody in three acts, is good in itsell,
but presented by a oast so well chosen
us that which gave it last night it is
especially good. Miss Mildred Kent as
Molly, played the part of a distracted
young housewife in line shape. George
A. Shepard as Max Ten Eych, had trou
bles of his own in straightening out his
love affairs. Miss Manna Hubbard as
Dorothy Marck, also had her troubles
hut finally decided to retain her engage
ment ring. Mis Elizabeth Hoar as
June Haverhill, finally decided that love
was a more interesting subject than
economic!, whereupon Hoy H. Walk as
Kobcrt Shepard, gave up his original
idea of a trip to New York. Kenneth
1 illotson made a very devoted husband.
William (Jiiinn as John Hume, the bash
ful rector, however, was the character
who furnished the most fun, and hia
part was probably the hardest one to
play. Quinn is above normal size any
how, but in his clerical robes he appeared
immense and this made Jus nervousness
and shaking knees all the more funny to
the audience. Not a trace of a smile ap
peared on his face during the whole per
formance though the house was in par
oxysms of laughter most of the time
when ho was acting.
The storv of the play runs as follows:
Mr. and Mrs. lord, a newly wedded
ouple, suddenly find that their maid,
Ellon, has eloped with a coachman just
at the time when they expect a house-
till ot company. A hurry call is sent in
to the employment agency for a new
maid, and June Haverhill, a college girl,
looking for material for her thesis in the
economics department, answers their call.
She is known bv Bob Sheuard. Mrs.
Ford's brother, but rather than have
her hve he promises to keep quiet. Doro
thy Marck and Max Ten Eych are visit
ing the Fords and have become engaged
in order to fulfill the wishes of an aunt
ho has left them property on that con
dition. Rector John Hume appears on
the scene, and is much taken with Doro
thy. Max has once been in love with
Miss Haverhill and is greatly worried
for fear that she will hold him to hii
promise to remain true even though she
lias rejected him. The finding of a note
signed, "J. II." leads him to suspect that j
she intends to do this and though he and i
Dorothy have by this time called off
their engagement, he suddenly finds that
it is she that he wants after all.
In the third act all the trouble ia
cleared up when John Hume Appears as
the author of the note, which was intend
ed for Dorothy. Max gives the now will
ing Dorothy back her ring, June accepts
the proposal of Bob and the Fords send
in another application to the employ
ment bureau for a maid.
Much credit is due to N. V. Barker of
the seminary faculty, who had charge of
the production of the play. Owing to
the marked success of the farce at the
first performance, it is likely that it
will be repeated down town in the near
future.
$1,500 DAMAGES
IN AUTO DEATH
George H. Cross Found by;
Jury to Have Been Neg
ligent in Driving
WHEN MRS. S. C. RICH
WAS FATALLY HURT
Verdict Returned in Wash
ington County Court A'
er a Hard Cont ...
, Olfiff
SCOTLAND'S FAME RETOLD.
Peter MacQueen Gave a Most Interesting
Lecture to Barre Audience.
Peter MacQueen, noted lecturer, war
correspondent and author, entertained
only a small audience in the opera house
lilttt. nveninfr when nn iovaraA loa fatiie.l
lecture on "'Scotland." Hut it is safe to sav
that those few who, in spite of the bad trav
eling attended, felt well repaid, for there
is no better or at least no more interest
ing speaker on the platform to-day. Mr.
Mai'Vueen has traveled extensively and
is well known. Those in the audience
A verdict for ' .intifT, Seth C,
Rich, administrate0 t the estate of Mar
garet Jf. Rich, his wife, to recover da Ul
lages of $1,000 from George H. Cross, a
prominent Northfield granite manufac
turer and automobile dealer, was re
turned by the jury in Washington coun
ty court at 9 o'clock hist evening. The
jury was out nearly five hours, the case
being in their hands shortly after 4
o'clock. The verdict was somewhat sur
prising to those who had followed tit o
trial of the case, which lasted over a
week, the general belief having been that
if the plaintiff received a favorable de
cision a considerably larger amount would
be awarded.
The case was one of the hardest fought
legal battles over a civil suit that haa
taken place in Washington county court
in some years, due in part probably to
the fact that the defendant is under in
dictment by the grand jury for man
slaughter. Whether or not the stato
case will lie tried this term depends upon
the decision of States Attorney Gloasnn,
Rich sued for $10,000 and in the argu
ments the counsel for the plaintiff laid
stress upon the fact that Rich was a.
cripple and was largely dependent upon ,
his wife for support.
The defendant was represented by At
torneys Frank Plumley and W. (.'. Whitn
of Northtiehl and J. Ward Carver of
Barre and the plaintiff's counsel was
Warren R. Austin of St. Albans,
Mrs. Rich received fatal injuries whilo
a puswonger in an automobile driven by
Cross which was ditched on Northfield
street, Montpelier, .one night hist sum
mer while they, with tw.a others, wero
returning to Northfield after a visit in
Barre and Montpelier.
, Court adjourned to-day until Monday
afternoon when the case of J. K. Pine,
vs. Granite Savings bank of Barre will
be taken up. This case was tried last
September and the jury disagreed.
GIRL ORDERED TO VERGENNES
Following Failure of Vae Coffin's Father
to Find Home for Her.
Glenn W. Coffin, father of Vae Collin,
the 15-year-old ' Washington ' girl whose
revelations to the police this week led to
the arrest of three Barre young men on
serious rharges, called at police head
quarters Friday afternoon and told Chief
Sinclair that his efforts to find a homo
for the girl had failed. The father
seemed discouraged over his efforts to
place his child in a respectable family,
who were not of Scottish descent might j as suggested by Magistrate II. W. Scott
have w ished for the time-being thut they
could boast of such, for, being a Scotch
man himself, the speaker certainly
brought out the strong points in history
which have made Scotland and of which
the Scotch to-day are justly proud.
In his opening remarks, after having
been introduced by Bev. Edgar Crossland,
Mr. MacQueen told of the inventions and
discoveries given the world by the Scotch
man. John Watt watched his grand
mother's kettle boiling and gave to civil
ization the steam engine. John Knox, the
great reformer, established the system of
public schools which Count Tolstoi
aimed was the best asset of America.
Dealing with the lives of the High
binders and ljowlamlers and the decisive
battles fought and won by the sturdy
Scots against the Knglish, the speaker
l . : ytnni ...UK 41, ,...vna ..... . .
mem in winn.v ..ii ..it- .ii-in ,la(1P fresh the tame ot such men as
the trouble. One tree was reported with vaiiHt.e. Bruce and Prince Charlie. He
a broken nmo on me wires near me Al
len farm. Merchant street, Barre, putting
several lines out of commission in that
locality.
FUNERAL OF J. E. EVANS
TIME IS EXTENDED
For Completion of Southern New Eng
land Railroad Line.
Boston. Afrd l-. l,iH tendirr
!e tuno lor the oomph-lion of td mr of
! l.e Sivif hern New I. Airland riiiT mm-
soy fmm Aid? 1. R'l. !-. 31, !).
signed bj the goernnr t-day. The
I mpo.! Imr rim from Palmer to Ff"i
t"n ti einrNt with t'" (rtrl r
trrt and i'l t :rnd Tmrk. of
V . li it i a !-i'ii ry, an."hir New
J.t ."!! r.d wyter t :n;lr I.
store slightly injured two firemen, Krnt
Duhe and George W. Chamberlain, the
bock throwing them backward five or
six feet.
The selectmen were finishing a e-sion
when the fire disivcred about fi p.
m. Ail the town books were rescued
from the ball and pi iced in the aults of
the savings bank.
The building s of thr storiesof
brick, with a slaio ronf. The three up
per floors were more damaged by smoke
nd water than by fire.
The owner of the drug store set the
value of bis sto-k at $.".'sl t1 said it
was prsctitvny oetioye.i. i lie prorr e-
ernment realie its full significance thev
will gladly accede to Mexico' request,
and. in the interest of peace and in line
with the traditional friendship whieh ex
ists between the two countries, will with
draw the troops.
"No one has ever oiietionel the hon-
esty of the purpose of the l'nited Mutes j family; tarnations. Mr. and Mr. S. K.
in limiting the prernt military move- ''"rr.v family: carnations, Mi- An
ment to a punitive nature, hut it is bard ' ni" Carlson: carnations. Mr. and Mr.
to minimi the jioj.-ilatuin thst a force : ' barb s Thnmpou: carnations. Mr. and
of thousands of men rf tlirep tranches Mr'- A. M. Stafford; carnations. Mr. and
of the erviee do not Iijm the semblance I r- Johnson; earnsti.ms. l arl Parker,
of invaders. The Mexican government ! Ir- '-- ".'ad and Mis Bohy lb-id;
lielieves in the fncn.'-hin of the l'nited i rni" '"n"- ':T- ""d Mrs. Joseph" Krasor;
States and believes that the rresent rri-i carnation-. Frank Huntnn and V.-a'rier
: .1
carnation-. Mi- Ruth K. Humphrey; ear
nations. Miss Christina Murray; carna
tions, Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Olson; car
nations. Mr. and Mr-. Andrew Knuton;
carnation. Mr. and Mrs. .John A. Hil
burg; carnations. Mr. and Mrs. O. K.
Kriekon an I familv and W. Benon ami
family; ra met ions. Mr. I.ivendale and j Because He Did Not Throw Up His Hands
Soon Enough.
Was Held in Montpelier To-day, Rev.
William Shaw Officiatng.
The funeral of John E. Evans, a well
known Mont)elier man. was held at his
late home on lingdon street in that city
this forenoon ot 10 o'clock. Rev. William
haw- officiating. The bearers were Eu
gene Smith, Charles Lamb. T). K. I.illie.
Pean Edson. Frank Chandler and Clark
Gill-on. The body was placed in the
vault at (.reou Mount oemeterv
said of tho Scotch to-day that in some
towns all the men bad enlisted and gone
to the front without lieing asked; that
if those same towns had a thousand more
men there would lie a thousand more at
the front. As in past wars, the Scotch
regiment are doing the most effective
fighting and it is they whom the enemies
fear most.
in the forenoon, but said he had done hi
best. The girl remained in the custody
of the officers and last night a mittimus
was issued from city court for her trans
fer to the state industrial school in Vor
gennes, there to remain until she has at
tained her majority. Tae will bo taken,
to Vergennes within a few days.
Edward Milne ami Benjamin Rrostini,
two of the young men arrested Thursday
in connection with the girl's alleged con
fession, wero admitted to bail of $1.(100
each yesterday and released from tho
county jail, where they were detained. .
Henrv Colombo, who was arrested on a
similar charge, secured bail Thursday. It
is stated that the ca-es will be heard in
Washington county court later in tho
term. Prestini is said to have retained
S. Hollister Jackson am! Milne has en
gaged J. Ward Ctirvcr as his counsel.
FORMER LABOR LEADER DEAD.
Ernest Lemmon Had Been 111 a Long
Time with Bright's Disease.
Ernest Lemmon. in former years a soc
ret iry of the Barre branch of the granite
cutters' union and otherwi-e pronrnonfc
crhaps one of the most in ere-tmg v , ,iu )l!t Zoning around 7
th
of her great authors, poets and such
Tho speaker touched on the work of
Scott, famed for his "lidy of the Iike."
now a elas-ie in the American ebnola;
of the loved Burns, whose tomb more
o'clock, after a lingering illness of
liright's clisea-e. Mr. Lommon's wife,
who is in Vancouver. I!. C. was immedi
ately notified of her hu-lwnd's death.
Besides his wife, the deceased leaves a
. .... .1.. .,..!.. I,, V'an..it r anA A.-.
travelers visit than that of Speake-peare I pra, ,.,,',,. ,,, rirn in Scotland,
the great English writer. In sneaking of i ,,- r , ,., ....
cenieiei.. ... .. , , . ., ...'r , ,. ...
Among those from out of town w ho " ' r '' ',:'rM'.!"' j taking establishment of Perry A Noonan
I ! ' 1 .n .v .x in-.-i im is. iMi ( .... I,..,,.! u..nuro
in the world and that he had heard men j nitl, ,Mr; v rr,mr,,
icii iii 11 in 1 uiiiaiiii, lire., cum again York Mr le
.vusun, 1 ex.
Speaking of the scenery in Scotland I
attracting tourists, he sai l that it was i
attended the funeral were Mr. and Mrs.
F. X. Carpenter of Northfield. Fred
Chandler of Woods ville. X. H., and Mrs.
F. P. Murrv of St. Albans.
STOREKEEPER SHOT
. I lie nropr e- I - -,, , . .. ' ll',.,n. ,.,.,.linn. I T ,. : .1. .
tor, of the hardware and groerrv toil , ,tl ' ' "rK ' i "V" '" "'' ''
T.b,l their rommoditie. at Hn., han ever." - i" v " A" S' :V',!n!
id they were pretty thorong- ly cleaned j XVTLAXD RAILROAD LOSES j : .-. Mr. and Mrs. 'i d.
in Suit Prought By Peter B. Sharon for ; -'er.km: ro-r- snd carnation.. Mr. ami
mt. .ri -iir Toier-on: ro-f an,i ruma-
Everett. Mass).. April 13. Hie inabil
ity of Lew is Glyck'ten. dry good shop-k'-eper.
to move quickly, probably cof
him bis life last nicht. When three nvn
armed with revolvers entered his shop
an.! ordered Vim to raise hi hsnds. lie
was unable on weeount of illness to eom-
i ply at om-e, and one of the men fired.
The -hot may prove tatuL The men
c-a ped.
ONLY SIMPLE ASSAULT
not merely the beauty of the country
which attracted but the beautiful lines
of the poet describing nature's woik. It
only remained for s,iitie writer t' make
famous the hills and a!le of Vermont
niinnu was verv ac
tive in the affairs of the granite cutters'
union. A ntie of Scotland, hating been
Isirn in Alierd-etisliire, about 4S years
3.9t'7 NEW RECRUITS
f
In.Mna E
, ;ti- n. Mr. and Mr., i ii-f An.!er-on- io-c
H- Apr l IS. In t.-w e-e -...! ,-.it.. Mr v.. i .. i
man. l"r "eteral yar- tiring his resi
lience here he rc-i.bI in the home of
Alexander Mackie. In 10O be wenf to
and New Hampshire whose be.nty could (trr)v h:( jn Vsnlvor ,mine
n-t bo .nrpassr.I. , . to t hi ct v l-t tall t rh.-e ,,s intere-,t
Nearly -3 s.-eue- of Scotland, its 111. y fu. ,,mi, vhmn
and streams, thrown on the s-ree,,. made,,,,, lu,.ira,, ; ,,. i,iv..,,t j nn,, prr.
the lecture verv "i-re-t,nC. I he U, rre , of ,,., , , '
uoieins cm.. -,..- .......so. , ,,. 1 -,. . ; in,!iT-n
health upon ln arrnal in Vermont and
soon aiteiward he entered I!e:iton ho -
to Psirre this noted spenker.
CHURCH 100 YEARS OLD.
i-'-rd. N
Out of the 7X Wanted for United
o.ai" Army. ei ! . t. r It. n . fe hut Ian. ran- ,,rrv,n. r-rw,. ySr ,, t, i, p.t,
Wl.ingnn. I. C A; r;l !. The re- read, a r j:iry broog! t in a f, ,,,,.. r,,,a i:,rjj i' , r,.
tilt rf 3" Oats' reeruitmc. anooun-t to 1 vcr.li t t e. r:t , fiiim the j -Taint -:T ( Troup: r"-e.. Mr an fr. ;., f.
dav by the war department f, t'- j-b!;- .2i.IT damage. 'P -it a r - nn: o?in! i-. V Mjr-a-et .l.tn-nn-
ti"ial JrtOiO ,Tv.n authorised I ii--. ; -eter for ivji" e in xn-e-t. -.--,..,!. Vr. (rl- It . i;s
v,.nH t)7 applieat r .,,,,) I r-n. t fu r;r.i?J st.,TTi 4i Nor' a ' V. H -e: i-niui! Vn-in
cpt t nf-e of reeruitt. Jerri-;. Vt. SrK!j.t.
Btattleboro Center Sexiety Will Observe
Anniversary.
Was er3tct of Gu'Ky Against Newell' j;rai -leh.r... April I V- The pro-lent : I
Leighten. 'committee f tont-r Congregation;.!
Woodstock. April l.V The j.irv w hi- h -bur. h last night ote. to .Wrte f"
tri.-d Newell lis)-.tn. rharged with first ! centennial of Cie i hur h, w biro a. or
drgrec murder, to day returned a ter.iict 'gani.ej duly 3. Is!.
that he was guilty of simple assault, in J This. ihur. h is in outgrowth of t 1
rt.nne.-t i.n with tie d.-atli of A. C. i,;h-jK;r-t lmr.-h organ..! in BmttlrL.ro.
-on at Karon. ! i. father. 'hre !.;ah-;psrt "t t" ! re-, it il'i a V- .' :-t
ton. l atir-s already b-xn found guilty of c'it i b'lildipg in Jf's ii.g. T
itianeUiighttr. t r is lv. Kn-fiard H. Cluj p.
1
I it;I in Mottw;er. trans'.-rrmg lter t.
the I'.arre City h-'-j-itl. wliere he had
l?een a tat-ent seer,il nontl..
It i -3ld t-cit t'-e !--e.s.-d p,'se-.rd
ro I,:tle intentite fj-n.Hs end sonie of
I 1.. -t ;i tiir- of the tooj slarpenmj
tna-h:ii. now i-'ely use ! in the IUito
,;tji! , ln-t. it i- stst'I. s'r the pr'xluet
of tl .s ciii-i. V,r. li'.-iji.n foiTnertr
I. W ;-i t- I Inn t.or).., ... .. H. S. C.
I ' : . i" x '.i . I ti in 1
T irv A N'- nn iV'- T.-.n; rr-
.. t a r n.s ii . , t J i '. i. t.j ,..r
will U- in ll-.j-e t-iu'lert.
