WEATHER. k ^ Cy^4 ' Llf "From Press to Home
Rain tonight. Tomorrow partly ^a ^a M ^a ^^a Ay . _^a . ^a a ^^11 ? ????? ?1???
somewhat M ^H 1 ^L^Ba ^k^^k a^^Ol^^k. /i\n ... .
t? northwest winds. I I A w v J Y^ I I Y Y I I Y^ Y I \ /Ty ' Within the Hour*
Temperature twenty-four hours | B B B B B B^^ B H B ^1 B ^1 B ?a , i m^lU
ending- 2 p.m.: Highest, 3:15 p.m. ^Y I i B B B B B B B B B B B B B B H H * '
yesterday; lowest, 51, at 6 a.m. today. L^ B B ^ B, B B^ ^ B B B B B B ^Y J B B ^ ? ??
on ^B I^B/ ^BHB^^Br " ~~
- f . I | y^J Iwtn lfet Olrealttfoa. Hostk of September.
1910, Dally Average, 74,830i Saaday, 5MS8No.
29.470. WASHINGTON, D. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1916?TWENTY-TWO PAGEs! ONE CENT.
GEORGETOWN GAS
STOCK TOBE SOLD
Washington Company Holds
3.530 Shares Illegally, Is
Court's Decision.
OPINIONS IN FOUR CASES
Four opinions were rendered today
. by the District Supreme Court relating
to the controversy over the owner!
shin bv the Washington Gas Light
\ Company of 3,530 shares of the capital
| stock of the Georgetown Gas Light
i Company. Four suits involving the
disposition of this stock were instituted
in 1913, and were heard by Justices
Gould and Stafford jointly. Two of the
opinions are rendered by each justice.
The court finds that while the coml
pany's holding of the shares of stock is
\ in violation of the provision of the pubi
lie utilities act of 1913, it is not such an
' infraction as would justify the exercise
of the discretion of the court to dissolve
the corporation, as asked in the suit
filed by the District of Columbia
through the then corporation counsel,
E. H. Thomas.
Keeause the Washington company
was without power to purchase the
stock the court decrees that a sale be
made and the proceeds turned into the
treasury of the Washington company,
to be disposed of as any other asset
of the corporation. Accumulated dividends
are to go to the purchasers at
the sale. This finding is made in the
suit brought by the Georgetown company
against the Washington company,
in which the court was asked to decree
the eoncellation of tlie stock certificates
and to return the shares to the
treasury of the Georgetown company.
Opinions by Justice Gould.
These two opinions are signed by
justice uouia ana concurrea in uy
Justice Stafford. The latter rendered
the opinion dismissing a suit brought
by Thomas L. Hume, a stockholder of
the Washington company, asking for
a sale of the 3,530 shares and a distribution
of the proceeds "as dividends"
among the shareholders of the company.
Justice Gould acquiesced in this
opinion and also in the opinion of Justice
Stafford authorizing Joseph Leiter
to foreclose on 3,000 shares of stock
belonging to Thomas L. Hume, which
Mr. Leiter held as collateral for a loan
of $260,000 made to Mr. Hume in 1912.
The court will hear suggestions from
_ counsel for the respective parties as to
the time and terms of sale, if they desire
to be heard.
In disposing of the suit of the District
of Columbia for a dissolution of the
Washington company for its violation of
the public utilities act Justice Gould
finds that the phrase "shall have jurisdiction
in equity to dissolve any public
% utility" for violation of the provision
is not mandatory, but leaves the matter
to the court's discretion.
Refuses to Cancel Charter.
"The record in this case discloses,"
says the court, "no such situation as
(would justify the exercise of the discretion
vested in the court to the extent
that the charter of this public
service corporation should be declared
forfeited because twenty years before
the passage of the act in question it
a? quired stock in another corporation;
especially when the corporation requests
the aid of the court in disposing
of the stock.
"Moreover, it is held in many well
considered cases that where a cornora
tion is vested by its charter with various
powers and violates only one of
them, and that one is separable from
the others, the court will act only with
reference to the power which has been
abused. L'nder this reasonable rule,
full justice will be done to the District
of Columbia and to the gas company.
when, under the direction of the
court, the shares in controversy are
disposed of by the Washington Gas
Dight Company. Upon a final ratification
of that sale the bill to dissolve
will be dismissed."
In declining to cancel the certificate
as prayed by the Georgetown company
in its suit, which would have the effect
of reducing the capital stock of
the Georgetown company to 2,470
shares, Justice Gould says:
Georgetown Co. Without Claim.
"It will b? observed that the Georgetown
company claims no legal right
or title In or to the 3,530 shares In controversy
for itself or for the holders of
the remaining 2,470 shares. Nor could
It reasonably make such claim; for it is
not disputed that the legal title to the
stock passed out of the plaintiff into
the purchasers of these shares, who
paid value therefore into the plaintiffs
treasury. Those purchasers are
not parties to this action, and, so far
as the record discloses, are makiner no
claim nor questioning- any stage of the
transaction whereby It reached the
possesion of the Washington company.
If. as contended by plaintiff's
counsel, the title of the Washington
company is void, then, of course, the
transfer to It Is void and the title to
the stock would remain In those who
tried to tranefer It to the disqualified
corporation.
"It is somewhat difficult to trace a
legal or equitable course whereby it
would re-vest in the Georgetown company,
which would be the essential result
of granting plaintiff's prayer. Nor
is It contended that the Washington
company now threatens or any longer
attempts to secure control of the
Georgetown company by voting the
2,580 shares, or to do any other art
which would justify a resort to equity
for Its intervention.
"The only basis 1<-r equitable relief
suggested in the bill or in the brief
of plaintiff's counsel is that thesf
8ha res are held by a body incapable iri
? law of discharging any of th?- obligations
and duties of a shareholder. Hut
the prayer of the bill is that the cer.
tifb-ates be surrendered to plaintiff antl
canceled as being null and void; not
that the Washington company be required
to dispose of the shares to those
who will be capable of discharging tin
obligations and duties of shareholders
"Slated in other terms, the plaintif!
appeals to a court of equity to enhanc*
the value "f 40 per cent of its stock bdeclaring
void 60 per cent on the sol'
ground that the 60 per cent is in th
hand of a corporation whose holdinj
of it is ultra vires. No case is cited li
which a court of equity has enrlche<
th*- holders of stock in a corporation a
their suit by canceling other shares o:
the sole ground that the latter ha*
passed into the hands of those Incapab!
in law of holding them. The utmos
that the plaintiff could ask.of equity I
that the 3.530 shares held by the Wash
ington company be in due course trans
ferred to the hands, of those capable o
discharging the obligations and dutie
of stockholders.
Court Orders the Sale.
"It follows that a decree will b
signed providing for a sale of th
3,580 shares in the Georgetown com
p&ny. represented by the certiflcat
v held by the Washington company. Th
I (Continued on Second Page.)
)
! BETTER WAR MAIL I
SERVICE PROMISED
Britain and France Will Make
Radical Changes, United
States Is Told.
'RETAIN CENSORS' RIGHTS
Radical changes in the treatment of
mails on neutral ships are promised in
i the reply of the British and French
! governments to the American protests
i against interference with malls. The
'changes, while short of an abandonj
ment of the contention of the right to
i search for information of value to an
I enemy, are regarded by the allies as
I sumcient: to meet me wisnes or tne
United States.
Otherwise the two notes which are
now under consideration at the State
I department are devoted to an extensive
academic discussion of the whole subject
of the treatment of mails in time
of war, with voluminous quotations
from the history of the American civil
war and of other wars up to date.
Powers Sent Identical Notes.
The allied governments' attitude was
set forth in identic memorandums presented
to the State Department yesterday,
and not made public.
January 4 the United States made its
first protest against allied interference
with American mails on the high
seas. The allied governments repliedFebruary
15, asserting parcel post consignments
should be considered subject
to examination because of the possibility
of their containing shipments
of contraband, but promising to "refrain
on the high seas from seizing
letter mails." May 24 the United States
sent a second protest against the plan
of forcing mail-carrying ships into
British ports, thereby rendering the
mails technically subject to inspection,
in the British opinion. The latest
allied memorandum is a reply to
the American note of May 24.
IT. S. Gathering Information.
While awaiting the reply the department
has been gathering information
j lomatic agents, and is understood to
I be in a position to make further com
plaints. Unofficial explanations of the
t delay have attributed it largely to a
j desire that certain changes in censor!
ship methods, such as the placing of
j shipping papers in special marked
i packages in order to expedite them
' through the censor's office, be given a
j working trial.
j The allies claim that, as the United
! States admits the right of censorship
i for purely war purposes, it cannot
rightfully object to reasonable delays
inevitable to that censorship. They
cite numerous cases where contraband
had been shipped to Germany by parcel
post, and state that parcel post,
therefore, must be considered not as
mail, but as ordinary merchandise.
DAIRYMEN'S LEAGUE HEAD
EXPECTED TO RESIGN
Efforts of Jacob S. Brill, President,
to Settle Milk Strike Thwarted
and He Is Asked to Quit.
j NEW YORK, October 13 ?Efforts by j
j Jacob S. Brill of Poughkeepsie, X. Y.,
! president of the Dairymen's League, to
! settle the milk strike with the four
! leading distributers of this city apj
parently have been thwarted by the
j action of the board of directors of the i
j league, who were awaiting today Mr. j
| Brill's resignation in compliance with j
their request formulated by the board ,
j last night.
As a result of this action John Dillon,
i selling agent of the league, said the
! partial supply of milk which had been
I sent by farmers to the four distributers
i ifnnifi he />tit nff tftdav. Dealers who
have signed the league agreement for
six months are ? receiving their normal
supply. Mr. "Dillon said.
Mr. Dillon, who is state commissioner
of foods and markets, said the
farmers are prepared to hold out indefinitely
for the granting of their de- I
mand for a six-month contract at an j
advance of 1 cent a quart.
U. S. AVIATION STATION
MAY BE ON CHESAPEAKE |
Army Board Considering Bay Sites j
as Well as the Field at
College Park.
Sites along the Chesapeake bay are
being considered by the board of army
officers appointed to select a site for
an aviation experimental field for the
army, along with the old experimental
field at College Park. Md., used when
the army aviation work was in its in,
fancy.
This board has Just made a report in
which it was stated that there were no
j federal tracts of land suitable for such
a station. The board is composed of
i | Col. George O. Squier and Capts. V. E.
Clark and Thomas PeW. Milling of the
Signal Corps and -"!apt. Richard C.
. Marshall, jr.. of vhe Quartermaster
Corps.
Many sites have been suggested to the
board, and these now are under consideration.
It is said, however, that only a
i few meet the special requirements of land
and water, isolation and accessibility for
f the proposed station, on which $300,000
may be spent, that amount having been
y appropriated by the last Congress.
The use of bombs and other engines of
e destruction in necessary tests on the avia<
tion grounds makes it essential that the
n station should not be located near a
d thickly settled community,
t Col. Squler. head of the board, said tori
day that the selection of the aviation start
tion was a big question and required considprable
study and investigation. In his
t opinion it would not be decided for some
H ; time yet. .
r BERLIN DENIES RUMOR
OF PEACE WITH RUSSIA
e BERT.IN, October II, by wire!.*, to
e Turkerton.?A Berlin telegram printed
In the Cologne Gazette declare*, accordlng
to the Overseas News Agency, that
the rumors spread In neutral countries
" of a eeparate peace being sought by Rus|
ela and Germany are a free Invention.
*1
f j ^ ^
p-E- IJj
BEES UN SAVING
RUMANIAN NATION
King Asks Allies to Prevent
Overrunning, as in Case of
Serbia and Belgium.
SEES ANOTHER YEAR'S WAR
LONDON, October 13.?The Times
publishes an interview given to its correspondent
with the Rumanian army by
the King of Rumania, in which the
monarch appeals to the allies not to
permit his country to suffer the fate
of Serbia and Belgium.
"The Rumanians will not falter," the
king said, "in their allegianc to the
cause nor can the enemy wean them
from their faith in their allies. Yet the
Rumanians pray that in spite of their
existing exigencies and their own huge
problems the allies will not allow the
affairs of Rumania, who has staked her
all in this conflict, to pass into the
back of their minds and to suffer that
she may meet the fate of either Belglum
or Serbia."
Action on Big Principles.
King Ferdinand said that Rumania
had not been moved to enter the war by
mere expediency, but that her decision
was based on the biggest principles of
nationality. "Against Germany," continued
his majesty, "there was, at the
beginning of the war, no hostility;
rather, perhaps, friendship, for economically
Germany was an asset to the j
development of our industry and a po- j
tent instrument in forwarding the
prosperity of our country. But with
the progress of the war Rumania began
to feel the subtle force of enemy intrigue
endeavoring in every way to
force us into the struggle against ourown
real interests. ^
Forced to Bide Timfe.
"If Rumania has been criticised hereto
fore let the world consider her position:
A small power with a small army surrounded
by giants faced a practical
problem. With a western frontier nearly
700 miles long, which alone was
greater than the English and French
fronts combined, and Bulgarian frontiers,
almost undefended, and near her
capital, stretching for other hundreds of
miles to the south, she had to await the
time when she could act with reasonable
assurance of protecting herself and having
the support of her allies.
Has Confidence in Allies.
"A small country in a great war which
promises to last for at least another
year faces certainly internal sacrifice
and the consumption of her resource*.
But such is the confidence of Rumania :
in the justice of her cause and the faith !
r?f hpr allies that sh* has cast her lot
with them in the conviction that her
great associates will see that she does
not prove to be the third small power
destroyed in tljis great conflict."Germans
Are Continuing
Their Crushing Strokes
nri Troncx/luonio Crnnf
LONDON, October 13.?The Germans!
are continuing th'elr crushing" strokes I
on the Transylvania front. The Ru- !
manians are being- forced back in j
northeastern Transylvania as well as |
along* the Rumanian border along the;
Hermannstadt and Kronstadt regions,
according to the current war office reports.
Vienna claims that the Ru
manian resistance has been broken on J
both sides of Maros river, where Berlin
yesterday announced an encircling
movement in progress. The Rumanians
are declared to be in flight here, while
their retreat continues near Kronstadt,
where King Ferdinand's troops a?re
falling back toward the frontier passes.
Compelled to Retire.
Efforts by the Rumanians to stay the
Austro-Germ an advance in Transylvania
have failed, the war office announces,
and they are being driven
back further by Gen. von Falkenhayn's
troops. The statement follows:
"Rumanian attacks near Vulcan pass
failed. In the region of Kronstadt the
enemy was compelled to retire in the
direction of the frontier passes. In
the last two days 18 officers, 639 men,
1 heavy machine gun, 5 machine guns
and much war material have been
brought in.
"In the Georgeny mountains and on
both sides of the upper Maros Rumanian
resistance has been broken. Our
troops are pursuing the enemy."
Rumania Claims Successes.
Rumanian troops Wednesday re
pulsed attacks of Gen. von Falkenhayn's
army in Transylvania, the war
office announced today. The statement
follows:
"On the northern and northwestern
fronts, between Kelemen and Buxeu, as
far as Bran, our troops repulsed several
enemy attacks. At Coti (east of Caij
noni) an attack of the enemy was rei
pulsed. On the remainder of the front
! as far as the Danube there were artillery
and infantry engagements."
Serbians Gain Footing
in the Village of Brod;
British Make Advance
LONDON. October 13.?The Serbians
have repulsed violent counter attacks
and gained a footing in the village of
I Brod. There were gun firing and skirm!
ishes on the remainde of the Macedonian
front. Allied aeroplanes bomj
barded PrUep and Philippopolls."
! British advance guards have made
! some advance east of the Struma river,
i in Greek Macedonia, says the official
statement issued at the entente allied
i headquarters in Saloniki today. British
armored cars explored the region where
the Seres-Demi-Hissar railroad joins
the Seres-Saloniki line, and found that
the railway was being trongly held by
the Bulgarians.
Have Infantile Paralysis Remedies.
BALTIMORE, Md? October 13.?Discovering
through autopsies that in every
case the intestines were affected, physicians
of the health department and Johni
Hopkins Hospital feel that they are about
to strike the real source of and remedial
for infantile paralysis. The results of theii
studies are being carefully guarded, and
it is believed that an important announcement
will be made by Johns Hopkins if
the next Urn dig*
i
WISCONSIN IS NOW
POLITICAL BEDLAM
Neither Side Dares Claim Victory
Because of La Follette's
Course.
%
EFFORTS TO CRUSH HIM
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
CHICAGO, October 13.?Reports reaching
both political headquarters here describe
Wiscohsin as a "political madhouse."
Neither the democratic nor the
republican management is able at this
time to claim the state. The dominant
figure In this bedlam is Senator La Follette,
running for re-election on the republican
ticket. Senator La Follette has
not mentioned the name of Hughes in a
single speecn ne n?is mane, it is nis present
purpose to go through the campaign,
speaking in every county in the state,
without once uttering the name of the
republican presidential candidate.
La Follette, who won his renomlnation
over the intensely bitter opposition of
the standpat republicans headed by Gov.
Phillips, while not voicing the name of
Hughes, is basing his chances of re-election
upon a daily and nightly denunciation
of the attitude of the republican
presidential candidate. La Follette is
telling the voters of Wisconsin that the
republican party under its present leadership,
is wrong on the Adamson eighthour
bill, and is wrong on the tariff in
addition. La Follette is making a plea for
legislative action, placing an embargo on
the shipment of munitions to the belligerent
nations of Europe.
When Hughes, on his second campaign
tour, was making his two-day
stand in Wisconsin Senator La Follette
nought the seclusion of his library
in his home. Two days after Hughes
left the state La Follette started his
campaign with a blistering arraignment
of everything the presidential
candidate advocated. He has kept it
up ever since.
Dilemma of Regular Republicans.
La Follette voted for the Underwood
tariff law and for the Adamson eighthour
bill. His discussion of these issues
can scarcely be termed a defense of his
position. On the contrary, it is a scorn
republican party to these measures.
The La Follette position is that the
necessity of explaining rests on the
other side. He is glorying in his record
of support of the Wilson legislative
program and snapping his fingers in
the face of the critics within the republican
party from Judge Hughes
down.
As might be expected, the situation
has developed into one of extreme bitterness.
Gov. Phillips, who was renominated
at the same primary with
La Follette, is in control with his stalwart
colleagues of the republican party
machinery. Every effort was extended
to crush La Follette at the primaries.
This failed. Accordingly, the antiLa
Follette faction is confronted with
the alternative of giving the man they
despise another six-year lease of political
power or knifing him at the polls
at the expense of having two democratic
United States senators from
Wisconsin and threatening the chance
candidate Hughes has t secure the
electoral vote of the state by reason
of the heavy German-American vote.
ALL BRITISH YOUNG MEN
MAY GO INTO SERVICE
LONDON, October 13.?The man.
power board has reached the conclu
slon, according to the Times, that every
. young man in the country must be
? definitely placed in the national aerv:
ice.
i The Times says that it la probable
. that the board will recommend before
\ long that all men under & certain age
. must be put at the disposal of the
i military authorities or of the ministry
of munitions.
' fW a,K.
9 ' sw
ANOTHER SUBMARINE
mm imto
Is Reported 200 Miles East of New
York by the Russian
Bovic's Captain.
< BOSTON, October 13.?A submarine
of unidentified nationality was reported
about 200 miles east of New York
by the steamer Bovic in a wireless message
today. The course of the submarine
was not stated.
The White Star freighter Bovic,
which is due in New York today or tomorrow
from Manchester, England, reported
sighting the submersible in latitude
40.17 north; longitude 60.77 west.
It was added that the submarine was
"astern," but whether pursuing the
Bovic or keeping an independent course
was not stated. The figures of longitude
as received are not correct, the
degrees given being wrong, but it was
stated the error probably was one of
only a few degrees.
Confirmation that the British steamship
Bovic sighted a submarine off the
coast was contained in a statement by
a naval official here today. He said:
"A passenger steamer reported to Nantucket
shoals lightship that she had
sighted a German submarine well
astern this morning." No position was
given, nor was the direction of the
submarine stated.
BRITISH CLAIM FURTHER
ADVANCEON WEST FRONT
Gain Between Gneudeconrt and Les
boeufs?French Also Progress,
Says Paris.
LONDON, October 18.?Progress for i
the British In yesterday'e fighting on the
Somme front was announced In an official
statement today. The British advances
were scored between Gueudecourt
and Lesboeufs and northwest of Gueudecourt.
Some 150 Germans were made
prisoner.
Mo infnntrv notion in
region is reported by Paris today, but
intense activity by the artillery is in
evidence both north and south of the
Somme. In the former region the French
apparently are preparing for another
drive in the regions of Morval and
Bouchavesnes, while their guns are
pounding the neighborhood of Chaulnes,
south of the river.
The French forces fighting to the north
of the Somme river in France made
progress yesterday fighting west of
I Sailly-Saillizel, says Paris. Berlin
1 claims the French attacks were repulsed,
f Berlin also asserts that south of the
Somme the battle between Qenermont
and Chaulnes continued. Repeated
French attacks were repulsed, it is said.
The hotly contested sugar refinery at
Genermont is in German possession. In
the village of Ablaincourt bitter houseto-house
fighting developed and still continues.
TBOOPEE ACCIDENTALLY SHOT.
Michigan Guardsman Hilled When
Gun Is Fired Through Tent.
EL PASO. Tex., October IS.?Private E.
O. Graham of Company C, 31st Michigan
Infantry, has died here as the result of a
gunshot wound in the chest. Private Alvin
C. Sauer of Company I* the same regi'
ment, is held under arrest today by the
: military authorities in connection with the
' dhooting, which occurred at the regimental
guardhouse. Sauer, who was on
! guard, claims that he was examining his
; rifle when it was accidentally discharged.
Graham had been placed under arrest
! durinfc the divisional march for refusing
- to sleep on muddy ground and was sent
back to camp,
Jf
CHANGES IN WEIGHT
AND PRICEOF BREAD
Statement Showing Increase
in Bakers' Charges and Decrease
in Size of Loaf.
FEDERAL BUREAU REPORT
The extent of increases in the price
of bread, or decreases in the weight of
loaves, during the four months from
May 15 to September 15, is detailed in
figures from forty-five of the country's
principal industrial centers made
public today by the bureau of labor
statistics. Bakers in reports to the
bureau gave as reasons the increased
cost of materials and ingredients, especially
flour. Changes in prices and
weights have been most numerous during
the last two months, which the figures
cover.
Report on 210 Brands.
Of 210 brands of bread that retailed
for 5 cents and weighed 15 ounces or
more on May 15, only 14 remained at
the same price and weight on September
15. Some bakers are reported to
have met the cost advances by discontinuing
wholesale business, substitution
of brands, presumably cheaper,
and elimination of the return of stale
bread.
Comparative figures regarding wheat
and flour prices and the average retail
price of bread, show that in September
the wholesale price of wheat was
34 per cent greater September 15 than
May 15, the wholesale price of flour 37
per cent higher, the retail price 28 per
cent higher for the same period, and
the average retail price of bread was
11 per cent higher. v.
Retail Margins.
Another table shows the retail mar
gin of prices for flour and bread. In
May flour was $5.48 a barrel wholesale
and $7.02 retail, leaving a margin of
$2.14 to cover transportation, retailers'
expenses and profits, and usual Jobbers'
expenses and profits between the mill
and the retailer. In September the
margin was $1.90 a barrel. It is made
clear that the figures are market margins
rather than profits, as retail prices
do not always follow wholesale prices
promptly. The retail price of bread
before baking in May was .056: In
September it was .062. The wholesale
price of 10.45 ounces of flour in one
pound of bread before baking, assuming
300 loaves to the barrel, in May
was .018. In September it was .025.
Wholesale value in may. i
In May the wholesale value of 10.45
ounces of flour was 1.8 cents; the average
retail price for 10 ounces of bread
before baking being 5.6 cents, making
a niargin of 3.8 cents between the
wholesale price of flour and the 16ounce
loaf of dough and the retail
price of the same loaf baked. The
margin figures do not Include the cost
of retailing and the retailer's profit.
Brands of bread September 15 were
being sold at 12^2 ounces for 5 cents
in one city. In another the price was
increased and the weight was decreased
at the same time. Frequently, however,
increase in price has been accompanied
by increase in weight. In some cities
the price was Increased, the weight remaining
the same.
Destructive Fire at McKees Bocks.
PITTSBURGH. Pa., October 13.?
Prompt arrival of firemen from Pittsburgh
and nearby towns prevented a
serious conflagration ac McKees Rocks, a
suburb, early today, when* Are destroyed
the pattern and coach-erecting departments
of the shops of the Pittsburgh and
Lake Erie railroad, together with several
Pullmans, passenger coaches and other
valuable rolling stock, .causing a loss
estimated by railroad officials to be |225,000.
FORCED SURRENDER
OFFLEETNIPSPLOT
Sreek Ships With Anti-Entente
Officers Were to Mass Behind
Allied Armies.
ATHENS ISSUES PROTEST
LONDON, October 13.?According to
the Times' Athens correspondent, a
conapiracy exioiea in wccw iv w- i
fleer the Greek fleet with anti-entente
sympathizers and to concentrate in |
Thessaly, in the rear of the allied
armies, troops, guns, stores and material
from Athens and elsewhere. The j
correspondent adds that the precautions
taken by the allies through an
ultimatum to counteract these schemes
caused no surprise in Athens.
Today was a sad day for the Greek
tars, who are insufficiently acquainted
with politics to understand why they
must abandon their ships to a foreign
power, says Reuter's Athens correspondent.
"It was an equally depressing
sight for the Greek naval officers
to watch for three hours this afternoon
their ships being towed away by allied
tugs.
Precautions Against Resistance.
"The allies took every precaution in
case of resistance being offered. Russian
cruiser Averoff and the batteshlps Kilkis
and Lemnos, while French torpedo boats,
ready for action, cruised to and fro.
"The ceremony in the early morning: of
ordering the crews to pack their personal
belongings and quit their ships, of which
they were so proud, had been a touching
incident The king sent a message releasing
every man who wished to remain with
his ship and join the allies. It is said that
nobody remained.
"The ship's officers were the last to leave
their vessels, taking with them their flags
and the king's portrait which adorned
every wardroom. Admiral Ipitis removed
his flag to the Lemnoa and sllut himself
up in the cabin while his fleet was being
towed to the new anchorage. The aidde-camp
of Admiral Ipitis, pointing to the
allied warships, remarked as he watched
the scene, "What harm could we have
done them ?' "
Greek Communication.
The Greek government Wednesday issued
a communication in which, after
reciting the demands set forth in the
ultimatum of Vice Admiral Dartige du
Fournet, commander of the Anglo-French
fleet, that the entire Greek fleet, except
the armored cruiser Averoff and the battleships
Lemnos and Kilkis. he turned
over to the entente allies, it says:
"Besides these measures (the delivery
of the fleet), the commander-in-chief of
the allied forces declares it indispensable
that the breach locks of all batteries of
Piraeus be removed, which batteries he
proposes in part to occupy.
"The admiral declares he will exercise
control of the port of Piraeus
through officers he will name. Finally,
to guarantee France's orient armlee
the admiral demands to exercise,
through officers he will appoint, the
control of the police and the service
of the* Plraeus-Larissa railway."
Necessary to Submit.
The government's statement then
adds
"The Hellenic government, before the
terms of a few hours were allowed to
expire, replied that it considers it its
duty to protest against the exigencies
formulated, to which, -however, it will
submit in the circumstances, making
of it an imperative necessity."
On the arrival of the crews of the
abandoned ships in the capital they
were wildly cheered by the populace.
Venizelos Denounces King.
The newspapers today publish an interview
granted Ward Price, the official
British press representative by Eliptherios
Venizelos at Salonikl, in which the
former premier denounced King Constantine
as responsible for the present state
of affairs in Greece, and outlined further
plans for the provisional government,
which include the' raising of an army
corps to fight on the side of the entente
allies against the Bulgarians.
In the interview M. Venizelos declared
it was the intention of himself and his
collaborators to set up a formal government
in Saloniki, exercising all powers
of state, "levying existing taxes to maintain
the military service and raise and
equip troops."
After expressing confidence in the triumph
of the provisional government of
which he is the head, M. Venizelos concluded:
"We want to fight side by side
with the allies. We hope soon to have
an army corps in the field."'
POSTAL STATIONS RENAMED.
Letters to Be Abandoned and More
Comprehensive System Followed.
The old practice ot designating postal
stations by letters, which was indefinite
and conveyed no information whatever
to the general public, is to be abandoned
in the Washington post office and
a more comprehensive and definite system
of assigning- local names to the
various stations will be substituted.
The system will give a local character
to the station located in a particular
community, as well as enable patrons
when communicating with the post office
to refer definitely to a particular
station. The following is a list of the
stations to be changed, showing the
old and new designation:
Station A, located at 1215 31st street
northwest, will De renamed i>eorgetown
Station.
Station C, 1319 New York avenue
northwest, will be New York Avenue
Station.
Station F, 1438 U street northwest,
will be U Street Station.
Station G, corner 8th and F streets
northwest, will be F Street Station.
Station H. 2018 Nichols avenue southeast,
will be Anacostla Station.
Station K, 24th and Channing streets
northeast, will be Langdon Station.
The new designations will be effective
November 1.
VILLA SCARE UNFOUNDED.
U. S. Army Officials Do Not Believe
Stories of Recent Activities.
FIELD HEADQUARTERS PUNITIVE
EXPEDITION, MEXICO, October 13.?
Investigation of recent rumors concerning
the operations of the bandits
under Francisco Villa and Julio Acosta
virtually has confirmed the belief at
field headquarters that the reports
were the result of Imagination of
frightened refugees. No Villa followers,
it was learned today, are in Madero.
which was reported to have been captured
by Acosta, according to the beat j
available information. ,
Villa has not ventured north of Temosachic,
which Is more than 100 miles!
from the American lines. I
y
A
'
FAR-FLUNG PATROL
BY UIOFF COAST
Destroyers Are There to Enforce
Neutrality and to
Save Lives.
FOREIGN FLEET IS SIGHTED
NEWPORT. R. I.. October IS.?A farflung
patrol by torpedo boat destroyers,
charged with the double duty of enforcing
neutality observance and savins
lives In event of further submarine raids
on shipping off these shores, was put
into effect from Bar Harbor, Me., to
New York today. Official authority for
the statement that such a patrol had
been ordered by the Navy Department
was obtained here this morning.
The limits of the line of coast surveillance
at present effective were shown
today with the arrival of the destroyer
Paulding off Bar Harbor, Maine, and the
activity of the destroyer Sterrett in New
xork harhor. Between these two outposts
nine other destroyers were weaving
a net of observation that extended a
considerable distance out to sea, well
beyond the lanes of coastwise vessels.
Admiral Gleaves Directs Patrol.
In Narragansett bay several other destroyers
were kept at routine target
practice with steam constantly up, available
for an emergency call. The fuel
ship Jason, which left here recently with
a full supply of oil, came in during the
night for more. All vessels, it was said,
were well provisioned.
The operations of the patrol are being
directed from the flagship Birmingham,
headquarters of Rear Admiral Albert
Qleaves. The Birmingham is at this
port also, in readiness to move at any
moment.
Except in war-game maneuvers the
coast has not been covered by naval
forces in such manner for years.
Two destroyers are operating at Boston
harbor in compliance with the new
orders, by which the neutrality service
of recent months has been increased.
They are the Warrington and Reid, with
the Davis, a new destroyer, almost ready
for commission.
Forelgrn Fleet Off Coast.
BOSTON, October 13.?A fleet of foreign
cruisers and destroyers is off the
American coast, according to Capt. Linderoos
of the Russian steamship Hesperus,
which arrived here today from
Huelva, Spain. To the pilot who boarded
his vessel Capt. Linderoos reported
that "a lot of cruisers and destroyers"
passed his vessel off Cape Sable Wednesday,
heading southwest. At the rate
of speed, he said, they must be off the
coast by now.
The Hesperus* captain had not heard
of the German submarine's raid Sunday,
as there is no wireless equipment on his
ship.
His report was coupled today with
that of pilots who were in Massachusetts
bay yesterday, that three torpedo
boat destroyers cruised off the coast all
day. One pilot said he thought they
were British vessels. Another said they
were American. Ashore it was believed
they were American destroyers on
patrol duty.
Believed British Destroyers.
Belief that they were British destroyers
was held by many water-front authorities,
who connected their appearance
with the fact that it was only yesterday
that British vessels at this port
moved out, after being held here since
the submarine raid off Nantucket Sunday.
The British destroyers, they contended,
came to act as convoys for ships
. of that nationality.
Three British Steamers went out last
night and today the Lord Cromer and
the Marengo prepared to sail. The
Kansan of the American-Hawaiian line,
under charter to the France and Canadian
Steamship Company, and laden
with war munitions and horses for the
allies, was expected also to sail today
for St. Nazaire, France, and Genoa.
The Kansan was the first steamship
to encounter the U-boat last Sunday,
but was allowed to proceed after examination
of her papers.
t
Destroyer at Bar Harbor.
BAR HARBOR, Me., October 13.?
The torpedoboat destroyer Paulding,
which left Newport, R. L, yesterday on
what was described as a neutrality
patrol mission, arrived in Frenchmans
bay early today. She proceeded up the
bay toward Mount Desert ferry and
later returned to an anchorage off this
port. It was supposed that the Paulding
had been hurriedly ordered to Bar
Harbor because of an erroneous report#
last night that a passenger liner had'
sought refuge here.
ADRIATIC LEAVES PORT
WITH ALL HER LIGHTS OUT
NEW YORK. October 13 ?The Adriatic
left her dock yesterday afternoon
with 353 passengers and 18.000 tons of
war munitions, but after reaching
Sandy Hook dropped anchor outside
the bar. As night fell no lights flashed
aboard the big liner. It was believed,
however, that she headed south soon
after 7 o'clock, well within the threemile
zone of safety. She apparently
followed in the wake of the freightladen
Pannonia and the Minnehaha.
The Danish vessel Hellig Olav, more
venturesome than the British steamers.
took the easterly course after
clearing the bar. They were the first
vessels to leave New York for European
ports since the submarine raid of
Sunday.
COAST RADIO STATIONS
ARE SHUT DOWN BY NAVY
Officers Are Instructing Wireless
Operators as to Exact Meaning
of Neutrality.
NEW YORK, October 13.?Since the
advent of the German submarine off
Nantucket the Navy Department has
shut down all coast wireless stations.
Navy officers have been sent to the
Seagate station, Telefunken station, the
National Electric Signaling Company's
Brooklyn station and all local plants, to
instruct the operators as to the exact
meaning of neutrality.
It was stated that one newspaper
wireless station here had sent- out last
Sunday to ships at sea an announcement
of the raid of the U-53 and that
this was regarded as an unneutral act,
~v
?
