m:'H
NIGHT
EXTRA
tEuening
'FINANCIAL EDITION
ffirtiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
YOli.lH.-NO. 20
ALLIED AERIAL
ARMADA RAIDS
MAUSER PLANT
rtv Planes Shell Eamous
Gun Works a Obendorf-on-Neckar
IflCK 6 HOSTILE CRAFT
ctacular Battle Marks As
sault of Flyers on
German Town
An attempt by the Allies to cripple
, munitions output of Germany has
twJ to one of the biggest aerial engage-
stents of the war. Forty British and
french aeroplanes drove down out 01
AitWiin tho German munitions works
I'gt'Obendorf-on-Neckar, dropping- four
r k of explosives. A fleet of German
umeltnes ascended to give battlo to
r the allied armada, but blasts from ma-
. Mae guns on the British and French
planes sent six of them reeling to earth.
' French official communique, which
t'jeperted the raid, did not say whether
tr not the allied machines returned
rely.
'So far as land operations are con-
i. interest is still centered upon
i Iulion drive. A battlo s still rag-
C.bf southeast of Gorizia, whero the
'lUBans are trying to cut through to
'Trieste. It is unofficially estimated that
tfce Austro-Hungarians have already
15,000 men in this district since
m offensive was resumed.
On the western front tho fighting of
fee. last twenty-four hours has been
MBcaratlvely unimportant on tho
i Trench side of the front. Numerous
artillery duels were reported. Tho Brit-
M advanced on a ono-mile front from
j (hwdecourt to Les Boeufs.
A success of the first rank has been
.& a J lm AT a wj jfc afc ! 1 jtn mww n A
fxu uy uiu uchiiuh uiuva ti i-iiw
sylvania theater of war. Tho wholo
h&nanian army Is in retreat, accord-
; to Berlin, and Von Fnlkenhayn, co
ating with Von Mackensen, is striv-
with desperate fury to strike into
plan and overrun tho entiro king-.
k was fPfeJteWfc ,vAt i .
TONS OF EXPLOSIVES
BSOPPED BY ANGLO-FRENCH
FLYER8 ON GUN WORKS
PAIUS. Oct. 13.
X squadron of forty French and British
. aereelanes has bombarded the great Mauser
' sua works at Obendorf-on-Neckar, In Ger
I ilii
7"i ,
News of the raid was contained In an
i eftelil communique given out by the French
r Office Today,
German aeroplanes ascended to give bat-
' Ne 4q the raiders, and a big engagement
Mowed.
Blx Oerman machines were shot down.
Four tons of explosives were dropped on
I. the Mauier works.
It Is believed that extensive damage was
-leae.
The official communique says:
"A group of forty French and British
ltors bombarded the Mauser works at
Ofeerdorf-on-Neckar. Four thousand three
aaaired and forty kilograms of projectiles
,r thrown and observed to reach their
Four German machines were shot
in the course of the combats which
oped as a result of their dftfrniu, nt
if works attacked."
yWMANIANS IN FLIGHT
ALONG ENTIRE TRANSYLVANIA
man,, uckl-ih AaatiUia
nEnLiki. Oct. is.
General von Falkenhayn'a troops have
0 a decisive Vlctorv In thn Tmntvlvanlin
E'sWttr of war and the whole Rumanian
, T I In retreat.
Dispatches received from the. front todav
.state tost both north and south of the
, ros Valley, on the northern end of the
wUe front, the Rumanians are falling back
Rumanian- territory, hotly pursued by
H Austro-aermana.
the center, between Vulcan pass and
O'ogaris sector, the Rumanians tried to
the Teutrrln mAttmnn. with .......
i " but wtre beaten back,
jjj Orsova sector the Germans are
""ag desperately to force the Rumanians
w Hungarian territory.
rful Rumanian reinforcement have
bed the front durlnr th iat ,, ...
S tt vldent that King Ferdinand Is
& V"' uPn nls reserves. Heavy Russian
wcemests are also raurinr Intn
nla, t
We and Serbian attaoks in Macedonia.
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 111, 1010
COMtteitT. 19IS. ST Till TtlUO LEMta CoMriXT.
OwHw oa Ta Fits, Celmnn One
THE WEATHER f
. FORECAST
PUUMfrhU dnd, vUMty-rVn,
I twin; Suturdau tuurlUi ,.. j
mhtlu uj.. .i ..ii ","""". .
fZl... ' t rwn. aewiAeny ,
taJ '"" WW
mi
T BWAteav a m w
IB ' !.!Mi hi... tsuM.
LAwiJut BUY, nikB MUMlia
fBff.VkKftm fr
Nllsslilin auki
im.v, v, m
COURT GRANTS
REHEARING ON
SALOON SHIFT
Bows to Protests on Burke
Transfer to West
Philadelphia
GIBB0NEY CHARGE DENIED
L, tJslBsW
" flk iBrv sW
f fPf n Wr
! I if 4 1
SBSBSBS? JK
.sUBsBMl.. JSW i
BBBBbBBBSBBSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBISBBBBBBBBBBBbV
1. . .-.. . .,.1.1111,1,11 i .1
ARGENTINE WOULD WELCOME
BIG RUSSIAN POLISH COLONY
Nation Has Work That Million Laborers
, Could Do
nUENOS AIRES, Oct. II. The new Ad
ministration, which entered omce yesterday,
would not comment on a 'Washington report
that Russia was planning to colonise 1.000,
000 Foles In South America, but unomclal
opinion hers Is that the colonists wouT3 be
welcomed.
Argentina desires population and more
labor, especially to develop her agrlcul.
tural and other resources, after the war.
The roles are considered destrablo settlers
by residents of Argentina and probably
would be received with only moderate re-strlctlons.
GIBBONEY'S ACCUSER
Harry C. Dennis declares D. Clar
nco Gibboney, head of the Law
and Order Society, urged him to
auit the fight against a saloon
license for Sixtieth street and
Lansdownc u venue, saying ho
would be "taken care of."
Judge Howard A. Davis, who, with Judge
Norrls S. Darrtitt, granted to Michael J.
Burke permission to transfer his retail
liquor license from 2100 Callowhlll street
to the southwest corner of Sixtieth street
and Lansdowno avenue, today declared that
he would consent to reopen the case, and
consider a revocation of the order. If petition
to that effect were presented by a majority
of tho residents of the West Philadelphia
locality.
Lansdowne avenue residents were stirred
to renewed activity today by publication of
charges thatD. Chvrenca Qlbboney, head oil
ino jaw ana uraer ooviciy, iiua in aavanca
Informed Harry C, Dennis, of C003 Lans
downe avenue, leader of the anti-saloon
fight, of the court's decision that the trans
fer would bo granted and that Dennis would
bo "cared for" If he withdrew his opposi
tion. Judge Davis, In his statement today,
takes occasion to deny that Olbboney or any
other peruon had any advance Information
as to the court's decision.
The two Judges, themselves did not agree
Centlnnrd on fsie Kliht, Col
lUjjfl
roar
ELECTION FRAUD
CHARGES PROBED
BY AGENTS OF U.S.
Alleged Conspiracies in
Pennsylvania and Several
Other States
POLITICIANS
s
ACCUSED
WASHINGTON, Oct. IS. Charges of
widespread election fraud conspiracies In
Cincinnati, Cleveland and Columbus, O. ; De
troit and other Michigan cities ; several In
diana cities, Including Indianapolis and
Terre Haute, and In Pennsylvania, West
Virginia and Colorado, are under Investlr
ration today by the Department of Justice,
The department hopes to dispose of the
cases before the election. .-
Bribery. Illegal registration, colonization
and proposed Illegal voting at the Novem
ber election are included in the charges. The
department has been Informed It is -planned
to take voters from one State to another to
use them in elections.
Charges made to the department, it was
admitted, have been on excellent authority.
In many cases they wer;made by voters'
leagues and cltlxens' associations. In some
Instances, It is understood, direct charges
were made that certain political organisa
tions have planned frauds: In other cases
that frauds of past years were to be re
peated. '
Election frauds cases in Denver, CoJ.;
Pennsylvania and West Virginia. It was
said, concern old cases. JTho Denver In
vestigation has to do with the Colorado Fuel
and lyon Company investigation of several
months ago. The West, VJrglnla Investi
gation is a continuation of general probe
into Wert Virginia whleh has already fig
ured is the State courts.
The Fenasylyanla Investigation Involves
alleged campaign eeatritmftoits by liquor
Interests, wbloh attracted widespread at
tentien svral noth age. These last eases
are usaewtowt t J bi ready fr trial.
' i,,, n '
Drive f DMktk Trlk HM
Wttr Street, of Uastere street,
tk negro who waa driving the motwrU-uok
wblak . kUUf l"tu tnuM,
sis wrm okt, and her kreesVer, WUliua.
iT-S TWr. aid. of 4111 1W etrae. oa
TWO SHOT IN RIOT
OF BAYONNE MOB;
SITUATION ACUTE
"Bloody Friday" Featured
by Rush of Strikers
.on Police
GUNS ARE CAPTURED
PASTOR PROMISES
TO GO WITH POLICE
IN HUNT FOR VICE
Rev. A. J. Ferry Denies Say
ing Fifty-second Street
Was "Worst"
ASSERTS RESORTS EXIST
Barrow Loado Taken From Hid
ing Places May Call
Out Guards
BATONNB, N. J., Oct IS. niotlng
broke out again today In the Tidewater Oil
strike with redoubled fury. Attempts by
tho police to disarm strikers led to violent
sniping operations. Two persons, one a
politician and the other a strike sym-
imimscr, were anoL 4J
The police arrested Ave men and col
lected a wheelbarrow full of rifles, revolvers
and cartridges.
Ea'rly today the body of an unidentified
man, apparently a Slav the third person
killed was found at 84 West Nineteenth
street with a. bullet wound over the right
eye. Investigation led to the belief that the
man was a worker of the General Chemical
Company who had tried to get sirlkers to
return to their labors for a bonus. A
saloonkeeper reported the man had Jjeen In
for a drink about midnight; that hPheard
a shot soon after and that ten men ran
awoy drectly afterward.
Sheriff Eugeno Klnkead, the man who
ended a previous trke In the bloody hook
and grldlrop sections within eight of New
OToeta said today he would keep hands off
tne' strike unless it gotbeyond. control
TJ-eayfcesaldf hV'.wsWyiindjfnaBfluV
zuv picnea men tor a ciean-up campaign.
The strikers hav decreed death to the
police If ihey Invade the Jieart of the strike
section again. And "Fighting Dan" Cady
says he'll disregard any such ultimatum.
His clean-up of saloons In the strike dis
tricts had somewhat of a quieting effect. His
squad battered down doors, destroyed bot
tles and turned on beer spigots.
WRECKED WARSHIP'S CAPTAIN
FACES NAV&L COJIRT-MARTIAL
Probers of Disaster Off Dominican
Coast to Report Soon
WASHINGTON, Oct IS. The court
martial of Captain Edward L. Beach, com
manding the cruiser Memphis, and at least
two other officers' aboard the Ill-starred
craft that went to pieces off the Dominican
coast, last August, was predicted at the
Navy Department today as the Inevitable
outcome of the Inquiry now nearlng com
pletion. For mora than a month a board of of
ficers, headed by Captain John Hood, of
the Naval War College, has been Investi
gating the disaster. The board went first
to Dominican waters and after examining
the wrecked cruiser returned to the Norfolk
Navy Yard to complete its deliberations.
With the examination at Norfolk of those
members of the crew of the Memphis who
have been recovering from Injuries received
when the ship was beaten to pieces.
TWO TO BE TRIED FOR MURDER
Camden Jail-Breakers Will Have Sep
arate Arraignments
deorge H. Thompson, the Camden County
Jail-breaker, will be tried October 2( for
the murder of Jail Keeper Isaac Hlbbs and
the shooting of Keeper Joseph Hills. His
attorney will be Joseph Deck Tyler .In
stead of William C. Matthews and William
Lewis, the negro lawyers of Boston. Attor
ney Tyler was appointed his counsel by
Judge Garrison, of the Superior Court, this
morning, when Thompson told the Judge
that he did not have the money to engage
the Boston lawyers. Thompson said he In
tended to retain the lawyers with borrowed
foney, but that no could not borrow,
Wilson Ashbrldge, whq escaped the Jail
with Thompson, will be tried October 24
for the murder of Hllxabeth Dunbar, for
which crime he was In Jail when he and
Thompson escaped. He Is charged with
.hooting the young woman January 21
when he met her at Ninth and Market
streets, Camden.
Guardsman' Body Home
The body of Private Joseph A, Burchill.
of Troop 0, who was thrown from his horse
In Ml Paso and killed last Sunday, arrived
In Broad Street Station this morning. Bureh.
Ill's home is at HSO Brown street. Com
plete arrangements for the funeral have not
yet been completed, but It is understood
that the services will be, held Saturday or
Monday,
(funeral serviees for the young guards
man will be heW at the Churoh of the As
swwatiwi. TweMth and Spring Garden
str. IniermeM wilt be made tn the New
Cathedral Oemetfry.
V1 '"I! I ,111 ,
ghipwrefk Swrrlvera Rk Galvt
GALVSKOH, Tex.. Oct. II The Me,
gas liner at Bio arrived hre today frw
New York wttk Caftaia Jofc oa as
men of the etwosw T V, Duna whtsk waa
rwus a monn wane auaa unto Nasr
REV. ASA J. FERRY
The Rev. Asa J. Ferry, pastor of Beth
nny Temple Presbyterian Church, Fifty
fourth and Spruce streets, today consented
to accompany Police Lieutenant John B.
Blsblng, of the Fifty-fifth and Spruce
streets station. In a hunt for evidence to
warrant the clergyman's statement that dis
orderly houses exist In the district and that
Fifty-second street Is frequented by women
of an undesirable type.
Lieutenant Blsblng called upon the clergy
man at the latter's home, 6013 Pine street,
this morning. The visit resulted from a
newspaper article In which the pastor was
quoted as having called Fifty-second street
the "worst street west of the Schuylkill
rtlver" and declaring that In the section
between Market street and Baltimore ave
nue. Fifty-second and Flfty-fourth streets,
he knew of thirty resorts that the police
were winking at
Taday was Btsblnc's day off and h
newspapeitar&lafyas hown,to hlra.iby,hls
uvvmv i uni uuiiie, eai'oomn .riny-ninin
street. A few minutes later he was ushered
Into the clergyman's parlor.
ASKS NAMES AND ADDRESSES
He reques'ed the names and addresses of
the resorts referred to, and Dromlsed to
forgo his holiday by beginning Immediate
and personal Investigation. "If the evi
dence Is conclusive," said the Lieutenant.
"I assure you I will back the patrol wagon
up to every such place and raid It, and I
will have the support of Director Wilson,
Cwitlnoed en Tate Tito, Column Three
SUBMARINE SEEN
200 MILES FROM
NEW YORK COAST
Allies Hear Several Flotillas
Will Leave German
Waters
AFTER MUNITIONS SHIPS
QUICK NEWS
TUG REPORTED ON WAY TO MEET GERMAN U-BOAT
NEW LONDON, Conn., Oct. 13. The Scott WrepkhiR Company's
ti Aleit, which hnn pono to Vlnevnrd Itnvcn, Is believed here to be
on her vny to meet rm Incoming German merchant submarine. On
bonril is Cnptntn David Hunt, who holds n master pilot's license nnd
had been engaged to pilot n submarine, believed to bo tho Bremen,
Jnto port.
NEWPORT, It. I., Oct. 13. Following tccelpt of a report that n
German aubmnilne hnd been sighted off the New England coast this
morning, tho United States destroyer Cumtnlngs dnsbed to sen under
fr.'l strum nt noon.
vIL50N liACK AT "AUTUMN WHITE HOUSE"
LONG DltANCH, N. J., Oct. 13. President Wilson nrrived at
tho nutuumvWhitc-Hou5o this nf tcrnoon from hla Indiana, trlpi
$102,000,000 MOTORS COMPANY CHARTERED
DOVER, Del., Oct. 13. Tho General Motors Corporation was
chartered heio today with a capital of $102,000,000. Tho Incorpor
ators nre Wilmington chartcrngents.-
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Laurel rnce, maiden 2-year-olds, selling, 5 1-2 furlongs
Supernal, 100, Schuttlnger, $7.00, $3.80, $3.00, won; Chery Itlpe,
112, Harrington,, $4.30, $3.80, second; Bright Star, 100, J. McTag
gnit, $0.10, third. Time, 1.00.
Sccuud Lautcl race, maiden 2-yenr-olds, selling, 5 1-2 furlongs
l'lare, 112, Taplln, $3.20, $2.70, $2.30, won; Snrgon II, 112, Bur
llugamc, ?4.S0, $3.00, second; Velour, 100, Troxler, $3.40, third.
Time, 1.00 1-5. "
PlilOB Oy CJSfTP
TAX EQUALITY
MAYOR'S PLAN
FOR 'CASH' CITY
Assessment Revisionby,
1918 Favored to
Meet Debts 1
w
MAY BOOST REVENUBS
BY NEARLY $5,000,M
Opposition Expected "From
Land Owners on In
creased Figures
NEED LEGISLATIVE ACT
Mayor's Revenue Plan
to Solve Clttfa Trouble
GRANTS RIGHT TO BEGIN .OUSTING MAYOR
HARIUSUUHQ, Oct. 13. The Attorney General's Deportment today formally
announced that It granted permission to residents of Wllllamsport to uso the name
of tho Commonwealth In seeking to oust Mayor KIschor, who, they allege. Is an
unnaturalized cltlrcn nnd thereforo not eligible to hold ofljeo. The ouster pro
ceedings will now ho carried to tho Lycoming County courts.
ARREDONDO BACK AFTER "PACIFYING" CARRANZA
WASHINGTON, Oct. 13. Kllseo Arredondo, Mexican Ambassador to the United
States, returned here today after conferring personally with First Chief Carranza
In Mexico Cl(y In regard to the problems facing tho American-Mexican Commission
in aesslqn atAtlantlo Uyv At the Mexican Embns.sy It wajdecjated the.mbftsj.
saJor'sAT8rt,MTxlcCIl'y'was to' Impress upon "tho First "Chief the true situation
in tho United States as regards Mexico, to prevent him from taking "Intemperate
action" which would liavo dissolved the Atlantic City conferences and further
strained Amerlcun-Moxlrnn relations.
DEUTSCHLAND PREPARING FOR ANOTHER TRIP
AMSTERDAM, Oct. 13. Captain Paul Kocnlg, ot tho German subsca freighter
Deutschland, will repeat his trip to the United States, noplylng to congratulatory
messages from Hamburg, hla native town, Captain Kocnlg, according to the Ham
burger Nachrlchtcn, said ho was engaged In preparing for a second Journey across
the Atlantic, to be begun soon.
EVERY YOUNG BRITISH MUST SERVE COUNTRY
LONDON, Oct. 13. uhe Man-Power Distribution Hoard has decided that every
young man In the country must .bo definitely placed in the national service,
Times stated today.
the
DELEGATION TO URGE SALE OF DANISH ISLANDS
BAN JUAN, Torto nico, Oct. 13. A delegation of six from the Danish West
Indies Islands left here today for Denmark by way of New York to urge tho sale of
the island to tho United States.
CARRANZA'S-FRIENDS DESERTING HIM, SAYS REPORT
WASHINGTON, Oct. 13. Extremely disquieting reports from Mexico reached
this city today from half a dozen sources. They Indicate that General Carranza
Anally has alienated virtually all of his former loyal military supporters. Ills elim
ination as a factor In Mexican ntTalrs Is declared absolutely to be certain before tho
first of the year.
BOSTON, Oct. 13,-The steamship
Bovic reported by wireless today that
she had sighted a submarine 200 miles
east of New York. Its nationality was
not known, nor was the course of the
submersible reported.
Tho Bovic, which sailed from Man
chester, England, is due to arrive at
New York Jate today or tomorrow.
NEW YORK, Oct. 13, Officials at
the Brooklyn Navy Yard said today that
no United States submarines are known
to be in the vicinity of the spot where
the Boric reported seeing an undcrsa
boat.
WASHINGTON. Oct. 13. DrltUh naal
authorities are preparing ror a series of
Oerman submarine raids on this 'side of the
Atlantic It was. learned In dlplomatlo
circles today that Information has reached
both England and France that several flo-'
tlllas 'of submarines will leave German
waters shortly, headed for this side to make
an organized attempt to halt and sink muni
tions and supply ships. These vessels will
operate In twos and threes to meet the prob
lem growlnr out ot the fact that hereafter
al Angl-French merchantmen will be
armed "ferdefensa"
la ejrder to meet the problem, It U ex
peeted here that certain freight and muni
tions will be diverted from Barti ssuth of
Nantueket. A sate refuge wl be provided!
for oargo ships, probably by noting the
Bay of Fundy and St. John's harbor, while
a general plan ot naval convey sued aa nay
J In ferae oft northern BeeUand and the
IrUfe aaasfwlll be made esfeotlve.
' FJWL1NG OFAKXIBTT
It la realisation of Umws probable Aevel
BiminU tlit hM oaitaeat the grave feeling
wt aoxiaer la Aarolalstraiiaa circle. Than
is ao doubt tUat tea Us totweea antUar
CLOUDBURST SPREADS HAVOC IN WEST SCOTLAND
IX1NDON, Oct. 13. Itall and wire communication throughout western Scot
land Is severely crippled today as tho result of a cloudburst Five Inches of rain
fell within twelve hours. Itollroads and bridges were washed away and extensive
damago done to crops.
NOTED ALMANAC FORECASTER DEAD
8T. LOUIS, Oct. It. The Rev. Irl H. Hicks, seventy-one, editor and publisher
ot the almanac bearing his name and widely known for his weather predictions, died
hro today of pneumonia. Doctor Hicks Is said to have forecast many storm dis
asters of recent years.
FIRE CAUSES $200,000 LOSS AT McKEES ROCKS
PITTSBURGH, Oct. 13, Fire today destroyed the pattern shop and coach and
cab departments of the Pittsburgh and Lake Erie CompanY, at McKees Itocks,
causing damage estimated nt JIOO.OOO.
NEW YORK REGISTRATION EXCEEDS PAST FIGURES
NBW YORK, Oct. 13. When the registration places closed last night 462,030
voters had qualified. This Is an Increase of 83,130 from the four-day totals last
year and 70,000 from the first two days' registration In 1912.
$60,000,000 MUNITIONS ORDER RECEIVED IN CANADA
OTTAWA, Oct. 13. According, to figures made public by the Imperial Munitions
Board, an order for munitions to tho value of 360,000,000 lies just been received
and contracts for that amount are to be placed. This makes the total munition or
ders placed In Canada since the outbreak of the war amount fa G50,OO0,00O, Since
the first ot fhe year orders have been received amounting in value to 1136,000,000.
CONTRACTOR EDWIN H. VARE FINED $699
The contracting firm of Eenator Edwin If. Vare was today penalised 1(9) by
Director Datesman, of the Department ot Public Works, for failure to live up to
Its contratt for street cleaning and the removal ofushea and rubbUti during the
month of September, The total of 'fines Imposed on all contractors was $177.W.'
f' p
BLACKLIST REPLY DUE "WITHIN A FEW DAYS"
WASHINGTON, Oct. 13. Information has reached the sHate Department
through official channel that the British reply ta the pretest of the United Me
against the WacHetlag of American cJtlMts and Arma may be xpted "wHfelft
a few days' l '
U. 8, SPENDS.$n0,eW,r$ ON cmtWINQ (GUM AND CANDY
WAMUNOTQH, Oct. 1 AoeenMac to the Own Mureeol raaert Ummw to
UMIi,0 InvesUd la the bual&ess of saaaufaceuring kwtng guai In Um Ualeaa
StWUs. Ue waft aaaauat to U.vet.M a rmr Use prodiwu artt "tlvyt a
411.UMM- TMsMWUMeieuir Mat yur wdnh
MAYOR has plan to Increase city
revenue by from $3,606,996 to'
95,000,000 during- 1918. ,
,
Scheme to equalize realty asaeM
ments expected to put city on pay-as-you-go
basis.
Neews for legislative enactment
precluded possibility of relief dur
ing 1917.
www
Would assess land first And then
buildings so as to distribute burden
to all sections.
-
New revenue would par charges
on most of $114,525,000 soon to bo
borrowed.
New revenue would make possible
adequate police force, more pay fee
firemen and meet, many outer k
mands. "
New revenue would give were
money to Water Bureau for bwHy
needed South Philadelphia service.
of
.LIS&jrfL4
KIJ1P3!
Municipal revenues In 1918 will be In
creased by from 93,000,000 to 18,000,000
or sufficiently to meet Interest nnd sinkings
fund charges on most of the 114,Stt,B4'
authorized to bo borrowed for municipal" Im
provements, If the plans of Mayor 3ralUi
and bis financial advisers to equallsV .as
sessments on city realty are approved by
the winter session of the Legislature.
A careful study of possible MethodjoC"
'increasing reveirueo'haa bepn'under-wajer '
several months and has resulted In the con
clusion that but few methods can be adopted
that will bring any financial relief for 1917.
The changes looked to for relief Include In-
creased assessments on realty wnerepat-
pabty needed. Increases In water meter ratee
and the boosting of service prices In some
of the city and county departments. Then
admittedly will not be sufficient to prevent
& tiLY ratM InpniM nt HnnmYlmntnfv thfrtv. -i
-7::".::: .:.:: :,7- jm
V(J VCma Ule fcleV JICQiV fa I .J VII HMiy, S4
AN EQUITABLE RATE
With only smalt relief in sight for the
next twelve months, the municipal finan
ciers, realising that the rapidly Increasing- i
cost of maintaining and operating the pity
government will bring additional tax bur
dens. If new sources of revenue are not
quickly provided for, hays turned their at
tention almost exclusively to the subject of
realty taxation along more equitable lines ,
than exist under the present system of, as- '
sessment and revision. Mayor Smith haa
been assured that In an equalisation
realty assessments lies his way out of pres
ent financial difficulties. ,
The need for more revenues from on
source or another has been brought hosaai
most forcibly to the Mayor's mind' by the
demands of city and county departments"
for a grand total of $43,3,976.79 for 1IL
as compared with the estimated f Jt,o0,M.
allowed for the present year. During lilt
Councils wss forced to borrow apwao"1
Imately 16,000,000 to meet deficits In er
rent revenues to cover current expense.
It Is probable that this sum wll be aug
mented by a 00,000 temporary lean' til'
November to pay bills until the end of Uw
year.
EVEN HIGHER IN 1913
Facing these facts nnd figures the Kayer
and his financial advisers believe tfca tsj
19K the demands and needs of depaHmeota
and bureaus will be even higher than far
1917, and In -view of this crisis Inmwatetoal
finances, the project of eualfaMg and re
vlslng upward realty assessment l on
that has recommended Itsett met fetolWjr,
to the men nstructed with the ears of estrj
government
The equalisation plan, which la based ml
sales prices In certain localities a&4 wMah
does awiy with the present fcasfeasavi
method of atseelng vacant lota and altowtaf
their assessments to stand from year Id'
year while realty en all aide la vastly .
hanced In value by Improvements In thai
nature of modern buelness stxuxHurM ' aasl
homes, will likely meet wtr opposition a
the hands ot Interested realty
iience tne proposal i revis
meat has been keet In the
may net be jMifcttely advaat4 WMU Ch
eralv question of iMreaslajfctb tax
taken up next month.
AXK'8 MpsrrtON
ha Jfatastal
eqaHabU asiiMWUft at Matty, aast
bank thrHis eentins that kr
m4Mlt,W,W Vu;y om) he
t muMhU rWM to be mtM .
rnt piasss. TmM Mgur mMalelysU
eUrs DsaaHir muss to oeiiMivMV.
thwr alaM call tor holding
th 9mV f Hv siun trh)Uy
tor ail laowpanoU Mho
sod aiM Urteas. mtstt s tnmnmOf
u ngn uh in nm
, A
tf-
mmm
lissfaa
Jk advati a iMb)!
