Sports for All
xperts Cover Every Branch
for The Times-Dispatch.
3th YEAR
VIILl'MK 00
Do You Play Po^r?
i ^? * ?**
Read Curtis's Famous Stories
Every Sunday in the T.-D.
AUREL WREATH I
OF VICTORY RESTS I
ON BOSTON'S BROW
cd Sox Become Undisputed
Champions of Baseball
Universe.
EFEAT BROOKLYN DODGERS
FOUR GAMES OUT OF FIVE
i
Fifth and Final Contest of
Series. Score Stands j
4 to 1.
rTKMJ.x vci?: m;com> smashi-:d j
tils to Viinthcr of 42,(120 Sop |
National Lpakiip Winners
UiiniMed.
' Hv A J .
HOSTOX. OrtAhT 12.?Th" Ho.stOM {
Ti^rlonns ftrmlv th** rham-|
onshlp laurels ? ?.' the basebn 11 uni
rso upon 111ir lirows here this af- '
moon. when they defeated the!
ooklyn Nationals by a seore of 4
1. In the fifth niul tlnnl ira me of
? world's t-.-ri<'s <.f 191 f,. The great
t gntherinc in the hlstorv of i
n*rlcan national sport witne?wd r}io j
"lory, 42,620 fatis departing after the
ntc.st. convinced then that tic (>(1
x had the baseball machine par e\
Iphcp nf rfiv-nt years.
As a. result of tlu* four-fianies-to
c confjiic??it 11v*'r th** stx?n?l;?rt! boarorn
the National l.eng-.i". Boston to.
ght is '-..p-brnt ing its fifth victory
world's p.-r!< s since 1903. and there
added joy in the fact that never in
history has a Boston tentn bc^n
r('"l tr. li<v." tr? tIt?? superior prowe?H
a rival in su?-h combat
<tohv ovkk sri>i-:itn\?.
( i.i-: \ v-ci t \ mi iir.risivi:
rhe victory ov?-r the Stip< rbas in th>
al meeting of the- t'-anis was so
'an-iMjt and decisive that there was
t no ground fo r argument. That
e better l?ain won the championship,
spite the determined battles ptjt up
Brooklyn in the earlier games of
O peril's. M'ilD obvious Before tii
eed and curves of ICrtu st Shore, of
tst fiend. N. v.. the Superhns were
11-nigh helpless, while .1. IT l'feff.-r,
e last hop.- ..f Hrooklyn. proved un
ual to the task ..f holding the B< ?>
x in cheek.
Although the Nationul.i were first t<>
ore, their advantage w a k short
ed. and one* the Most on; unlitnbered
eir h'nvy bat tint; artillery, any
tib t regarding the outcome of the
tne was dissi nt'd. so closely did
ore hold the Brooklyn ? Ian in the
vstery of bis deceptive delivery. The
vaders front ilreator .V<-w York w# r<
le to score only three hits for a sltni
r total of bases, and the solitary run
ore was unearned It was the re
It of a pas?. a sacrifice, an out and
passed ball. Boston. on the other
tid. collected ten bases on seven hits,
id two of its four runs were earned.
NTHl.'SIASM OV IW \s
IS OX1.V MO!li:ilATi:
Although the contest wns played he
re a record throng of fans, there
is only a moderate amount .if en
usiasm. the chilling weather and the
He with which the Sox d.spos.-d ..f
cir opponents dulling th- edge of
ch outbursts as sprang from grand
ands and bleachers at the more thrill
g points of th" game. The day was
ttor cold, with a piercing wind from
rs cost and. while the sun shone from
eloudlcss sky. there was Utile jf any
irmth in its rays. The 42,620 spec
tors. who paid 58.1,873 to witness the
ittmph of the American Tongue cham
ons, came prepared for the Novemher
te weather. Overcoats, fur wraps,
?avy gloves and, in fact, everythinp
cept ear laps were much in evidence
id fully appreciated by their for
nate wearers.
Aside from Shore's clever cold
eather hurlinp, and a sensational
nnitiB slioetop catch by Wheat off
ore in the fifth and its mate by
iwi3 in the eighth, when he robbed
crklc. hatting: for Pfeffer. of an ap
Lrentty sure double, the same was
void of feature plays.
Immediately after Scott had clinched
e championship by gobbling Mow
y's short ily for the flnnl out of the
me, the younger element among the
ectators rushed upon the Held and
II In behind the Itoyal Kooters and
eir band for a parade. On the first
rctti'. of the diamond they caput red
resident .1. .1. L.annln. of tin- Boston
ib. and then crossed the Held nftvr
rsident ii. Kbbets, of Brooklyn,
uid the cheers of the. fans, the rival
il? executive joined arms and led
e inarch, while thousands in the
mds stayed to watch the celebration.
,ayi-:hs no not wait
KOK CON (ill ATI" I.ATIONS
The players, however, did not wait
take part in the impromptu cere
onies. Both the Bed Sox and Super
s streaked for the dressing-rooms,
d there were few if any congratula
>ns.
Manager Bohinson did not meet I'm?
5?n in his dash across the li.-ld. and
ere was no public greeting or hand- i
tsp between the pair. Many of the j
ns. however, shook hands with the!
m! Sox players and with Manager >
rrigan, who said ngain that lie had
tired front professional baseball villi t
?day's game. j
As wns the case i-i > . >i<-rdii \'s g u.ie. ?
?ooklytl was lite lirst So score Its j
)y and tinearn.-d tall* came in tin
cond session, wlo n Slo.re issued h?** j
Jy pass of lb" d-v. tfinking t'e j
aw to lirst. Mow s . i- rihi ? '
second, from wb . If mo\e. j
third on oixfoi*- ' ..lit. -n- > t
orcd wlt'ii S'1 ?? ?' 'i pi i
th a passed o.il
Boston Immediately tied the scorn
Its half of the same inning, when
iwls tripled to loft and came homo
'Wheat throw tlio ball, rccoverod
(Continued on Ninth Pas?.)
British Ship Stopped
by yU. S. Destroyer
Vt-:\Y I Oltlv. (Iclulicr J2.?.'I'hc
Ilritlnh Mtrniimlilp City of Minima
?ii? overhauled tiff AmtiroNr llglil
whip to-nlKht l?>- Ilie Cnlted Minim
torpcdo->?oiit drulroycr Mrrrrll, and
brouKht lini'k lu Clifton, Mnteii Is
land. ufler it lind ignored llu- ?nr
h-kim-I'h hlglUll to HtO|> Mil<11 II ||.ri
((liiiriiiil Inr. ,
The ( II) <?f Madras, it vchm-I ?r
tMMH ton*, cleared Ironi iIiIm port
on Monday for Sinuiiporc. .Manila
nnd HoiiKkoiiK, hut anchored nliove
quarantine. nppureiill} tearful of
n Miilimurlnc attack If kIic i<>Dliirrd
out to urn.
A* tlii' mIiIii |iiim??-iI i|iin ran tine to
"'H't on lier uiii oiiI nIu* mm nlg
lulled l?y tin* Slcrrcll to mIoii. Iml
ln?tenil rami down tlx- linrlior. She
overtaken lilirciiMl tin- Ambrose
('liiinnr I lightship.
Vimv \ urk .Vn?;.Varil altlerrs to
night dlsclnInird nil knowledge of
tin* Strrrrtf ** net ion.
ill STEP FORUM
JN DRIVE ON TRIESTE
Italians Gain Additional Points of
\antaKC South of Ciorizia and
Capture 1,771 Men.
AUSTRIAN ATTACKS REI?l*LSi:i>
Roumnninns Still in Retreat Alon?
Mntire Kastern Transylvania Front.
British Win Mure Ground .Vortli
??f Tliiepval.
I Uy Ax.srtrlnt???; (
IvONDON*. October 11!.?Anollier step
forwn rd in their quest of Trieste has
been made by the Italians in the region
south of Gorlzlu. additional points of
vantage having been captu: .-<1 and
l,i <1 men made prisoner.
In litis region, which is about sl\
loeti miles northwest of Trieste, ami in
the Julian Alps, to the east, the Ital
ians from August ij to the present
report tli-v have raptured 30.SM Aus
tria ns.
< >n tlie Carso idat. au heavy Austrian
attacks against the positions recently
taken bv the Italians have been r<
pulsed.
Along the entire Kastern Transyl
vania front the Roumanians are still
in retreat, and in the north also are
beginning to fall back before the
troops of the Teutonic allies, according
to Berlin Bukha rest says, however,
that at' N at various points on their
northe; i >1 northwestern fronts have
been tep.-lh- i.
mti\ i: i\ ui'i'dNi:\ts
I'lto.M ovtmim; Dis'riticrs
The British troops have reached the
outskirts of the important town of
Seres, in Greek Macedonia. north of
Lake Tahinos having driven in their
opponents from the outlying districts
The town is strongly held by the Teu
tonic allies. Westward, the village of
Broil, which lies in Serbia, southeast
of Mor.astir. has been captured by the
Serbians. Roth Berlin and Sofia report
tlie repulse of attacks along the Cerna
River and on both sides of the V.irdar.
That the British have gained some
additional giound north of Thiepval,
south of the Anore River in France."
and on the Sars-Guoudcourt line, is
indicated in the Berlin otlicial com
munication, which say;; British attacks
here failed "for tin most part" befor ?
the German curtain of fire West of
Sailly-Saillizel the Ftench have made
a further advance.
South of the Sominc, violent artil
lery duels are in progress, especially
between Genermont and Chaulnes In
the town of Ablaincourt, the Germans
and French arc engagcil in hand-to
hand lighting.
Fiti:\rn MAKi-: iMtot;iti:ss
\vi:s'r tir s\im.y-s.\ii,i.i'/.i:i.
i Bv A*"'>eiate.l Pref?. !
i'AUI.S. October 1".?The Fiench
forces fighting to the north of the
Somtne Biver in Kranee. made progress
to-day in fighting west of Sailly-Sailli
zel. according to the otlicial communi
cation issued to-night. South of the
river there was great activity by the
artillety of 'both the French and the
Germans.
The communication reports also that
the Serbs, fighting in their own terri
tory southeast of Monastir, have re
pulsed Bulgarian counterattacks, and
obtained a footing in the village of
Brod.
maim: mivisti'.h of wab
l\ I'ttoVISIONAI, t'AIII.VHT
I Ity Associate)! I'rrss. 1
l.o.VDO.V. October 12.?General Zim
brakatis has been appointed Minister
of War in the Creek provisional gov
ernment. organization of which is be
ing completed nt Snloniki. savs a
Beuter dispatch from Snloniki under
date of October 10.
General Ziinbrakatis took the oath
of allegiance on that day, adds the dis
patch, in the presence of the three
lending members of the provisional
government, former Premier Venizelos,
Vice-Admiral Ooundouriotis and Gen
eral fa ny otis Pang I is.
The sent of the government, it is
stated, is undecided, hut it is believed
it will be Mytilene.
TIIOOI'S OF KOI' MA X I A
? STII,I, AUK l> I'l.lfillT
I My Associated I'ress. J
RKRLIX. October 12 (via London).?
Teuton troops are pursuing the Boii
manian forces on the whole Kastern
Transylvanian front, says the otlicial
statement issued to-day by the Ger
man army headquarters staff. The
second Roumanian army, the an
nouncement adds, has been driven
hack i'lto tiw frontier positions
<;F,B V A V S IlltOI* (iAIII.IC
INKHtTHI* WITH CIIOMOItA
I llv AssoeiaP'd Pros". I
I'KTBOG ISA l?. October 12 (via Lin
don). "The following otlicial annotp.iv
ment was made h- re to-day:
"In Inibrudjii, an enemy air siiuadroti
dropped bombs on C'onstanzA (the
principal Itotimanian Black *Sea port),
and also "poiponed sweets and garlic in
fected witli cholera bacilli."
y -TV.. A1
MANY SOLDIERS
ARE UNDER ARREST
Information Refused as to Num
ber-of Militiamen Charged With
Disorder at Fair.
STUART ISSUES STATEMENT
Governor Regrets Occurrence,
but Says Men Are Now Under
Federal Control.
A large number of soldiers now in
I Camp Stuart were reported lust night
to be under arrest at tlic camp
tlio result of the attack on
tlie guards at a irate to the State
j Fair Grounds on Wednesday night.
I when more than 100 soldiers In
uniform forced their way into the
l grounds without payment and pro
! reeded to show their eotjteir.pt for the
police and fair authorities by various
forms of disorder. Information as to
the number under charges was refused
' at Camp Stuart. and officers weVe
t warned not to talk with reporters.
? A few soldiers were visitors at the
fair last night, and conducted them
selves iti a most exemplary manner.
It was stated that most of these were
men 011 two-day leave, who had not
l?een at camp since before the out
hreak. and
were not. therefore, ae
. cused of haviric had any part in it.
FA III ASSOCIATION I'ltKSIIHONT
< OVSt IjTS (iOVIUt.VOH STl'AICT
; V'?twithstanding strenuous efforts to
j minimize the afTalr and a general dis
position to be lenient with the men
?'' M?1'. 't was stated yesterdav by
President Fairfax Harrison and General
1 Manager W. Conway Saunders, of the
siat.- Fair Association, and Captain U.
( n. Sowell. of the Police Department.
that the accounts of the disorder In
j ri).- 1 inies- Dispatch of \ "esterdav wore
; not exaggerated.
Governor Stuart visited the fair ves
terday afternoon, and was there called
on by President Harrison and several
members or the board of directors.
| After this conference lie issued the
, following statement from the Kxeeu
1 tlve Mansion:
"The soldiers now ;l i ?\mip Stuart,
bavins taken the Federal oath, ate
j now a part of the federalized National
??'lard, arid are, therefore, beyond the
control of the Governor of Virginia,
who. by virtue of his ofllce. is com
mander-in-chief of the Virginia Na
1 tional Guard.
"Apart from this consideration, how
j ever. I am of the opinion that the
, action of last night, while hasty and
ill advised on the part of the soldiers,
. is. nevertheless, easily recognizable as
between themselves and the State Fair
Association.
iii-:i.ii-:vf.s coi.onki. sm.omonskw
Wll.l. MAINTAIN llISf'IPI.INK
' 'I feel sure that it Is the purpose of
Colonel Salomonsk.v. who is one of the
most experienced and efficient officers
in the Virginia service, to maintain
military discipline in his camp at all
times. This will, of course, prevent the
recurrence of such incidents as are coni
plalned of last night, which, in their
' nature, could not have been foreseen
j by Colonel Salomonsky.
! "On tin- other hand. I feel sure that
there is not. nor could there be, any
111 will on the part of the state Fair
management toward the Virginia sol
diers nor the uniform they wear, which
i? honored and respected all over the
world and. . most of all. In our own
, land. I recommended to the last Gen
j eral Assembly a hill which guaranteed
i respect to our uniform everywhere in
Vlrclnia. and the hill was passed with
out a lissenting vote.
?*! feel sure that the young men who
! constitute our military establishment
recognize the obligation which they,
, as wearers of this uniform, owe. not
simply to their country and State, but
to themselves, and that they would he
? Jhe very last to do anything knowinsly
! to lower the esteem in which they are
j justly held as soldiers and gentlemen."
IM K TO \ A Tl'lt A I. KIIIMTIOX.
SAVS I'AIHKAY HAItttlSON
j Seeking to excuse the conduct of
the soldiers. President Fairfax Harri
j son said yesterday afternoon that the
disorderly action of the soldiers was
j probably due to a natural ebulition of
spirits, such as animates students af
ter a victorious college game. The
; nets of the soldiers were not condoned.
I and everything stated in The Times
nispatch of yesterday morning con
cerning the manner in which the
grounds were forcibly entered by the
militiamen and the manner in which
the soldiers conducted themselves af
terward, was borne out by General
Manager W. t". Saunders, members of
the hoard of directors and other of
ficials of the Fair Association.
It was stated that reduction in the
cost of tickets at so much per 100 had
been offered to the militiamen. This
offer was not taken up. Instead, on
Wednesday night, when the largest
crowd was in attendance, when the
grounds were tilled with women and
children, the soldiers, at least 250
strong, overran the guards at ? the
Hermitage Uond gate. assaulted j
Policeman A. M. Shipp, and so fright- j
ened women that they cried. j
SA I'N I>KltS SAVS ACCOUNT
WAS NOT OVKWillAWN
General Manager Saunders and Cap
tain Sowell. from whom came the al- |
legations of ihe. disorderly conduct of
the soldiers, stated that the account
in The Times-Dispatch of yesterday
i morning was not overdrawn, (hat the
story printed was in full accord with
what actually happened.
President Harrison said that he. felt
sure that the soldiers would be aa
much ashamed of their conduct as the
fair ollicers were ashamed of them.
Mr. Harrison was particularly gener
ous in his references. He thought
i thai, the soldiers were merely animated
, by that spirit which leads collegians
j io do things which upon ordinary oc
j casion they would not think of.
The Fair Association will not at
j tempt prosecution of any militiamen.
(Continued on Third Page.)
?3, .11110
MISS SIINSON HAS
NARROW ESCAPE
; Her Engine Stops When She Is
1,000 Feet in Air, but She
Descends Safely.
; UHLAN WINS GREAT APPLAUSE
'World-Record Horse Is Exhib
ited on Race Track by
Son of Owner.
More Ui.'iii n.vnno neople attended
"Farmers" Day" at ii?o Virginia State
j Fair yesterday; the grand stand in the i
I afternoon wan packed. and other thou-?]
! sands 1 inocl the rnpp-track fences. all !
j intpnt upon watching the free attrac
tions. Hi'- speeding of Uhlan. owned
by C K. 11. Hillings, of Curie's Neck
Farm, and the flight of Miss Katlierine
jStinson. the nineteen-year-old aviator.
. There was one thrill not upon the
| card. Mifs Stinson arose upon the
i scheduled hour. When she was more
j than 1.000 feet up. eliding and dipping
in the sunlight, something happened to
| her CSnome encine, ami she was forced
1 to descend. She lowered her planes
j immediately, hut she was so clos? to
i earth when she began to descend that
j she narrowly '-scaped striking the
fence on the southern side c?f the race
i track, west from the grand stand.
Kven offr that the machine was not
under control, and the young avlutor.
with h?-r engine i^lssing, had dif
ficulty in alighting, tin t she had so
much ganteness that sh?- was ready to
My again, and was deterred only by
the expostulations of th?? master me
chanic. Th?> flight was short in time
duration, and there was no opportunity
to attempt the loop-the-loup.
j iiomavci; is .hi.m;i,i-:u
WITH I KA I'I UKM OF FA III
j Itomance was mingled with the
usual features, but no one knew it
, except the principals anil those taken
| into their confidence. William Danube,
i of tlie Four Danube Brothers, who per
form in a casting act. and .Miss Olive
Kllis. of Chicago, one of the Tiih- I
manian Troupe, procured a marriage
license from the Hustings Cyurt dur- j
ing the afternoon, and the marriage 1
I ceremony is scheduled to take pluce. i
j Saturday afternoon at 4 o'clock In front
j of the grand stand. Captain George
j IS. I'ollock. of the Police Department. '
was informed by bride and groom of
; the prospective ceremony, and the I
I same tale, was told by the bride to a
i reporter of The Timcs-DiHpatch in
; front of her tent. The attendants are
to be Mr. and Mrs. llal Baker, of the!
j Four Danubes.
The day, in point of attendance, was
?a record-breaker. Two hours after
! noon the grand stand was filled, so
that late-comers were forced to stand
; upon tlie stairways or seek room in
! the paddock. While the races were
on the fences were crowded with heck
i oning throngs.
CIlO W II STA NDS TO
A I'I'bA L II t 11 liA A
It was shortly after U o'clock that
, Uhlan, the famous trotting horse owned
by C. K. Billings, of Curie's Neck
Farm, was placed on the track. Dr.
i Tanner, trainer for Mr. Billings, drove
the horse around the race track. In
? the one-eighth mile Uhlan, with Albert
Billings, son oC the owner, in the sad
dle. beat his running pacer, making
the distance in thirteen .seconds. When
j ihc famous horse appeared on the
iiav-k the grand stand applauded with
i hand and voice, and when he finished
ahead of his pacer the crowds, lined
j up around the track, lost thought in
applause. Uhlan was brought to Rich
mond by Mr. Billings from Lexington,
Ky., in order to show his interest In
| the progress of horse racing in Vir
I ginia.
During an intermission between the
' free attractions the stock parade was
| held. Horses and cattle, all bearing
j ribbons, followed each other in front
of the grand stand and bleachers, and
j the whole crowd arose to greet them.
J A Hereford calf, from Lee County, won
the prize for beef cattle In the grand
. championship for all beef breeds.
: The free shows were finished before
j ,"i o'clock, and then the grand stand and
I the bleachers to the west were emptied,
the crowds taking to Midway and
Ballyhoo Lane and the exhibit build
ings. The throngs, not so lurge, of
course. as on the evening before, found
easier way through the amusement
lanes. Fakirs had an easier time, and
nickels and dimes for the shows were
thrown away with a lavishness that,
causing comment as it did. Is seen here
I only upon such an occasion. Farmers,
roughly dressed, and the city coxcomb,
| (paltered and adorned, mingled with
each other as members of the same
i fraternity.
| THKMKMHMS SC'CC'KSS.
SAYS I'llKSlDKVr IIAIIHISOX
! President Fairfax Harrison stated
, that the day was a tremendous success,
I and other officials agreed that the at
. tendance was larger than upon cor
' responding days In previous years.
; During the day there was no sign of
i disorder. Semblance of disorder was
I <|uelled by the police at its starting,
j One soldier, it was reported, was filled
i with the idea that he could cause a
riot. lie was soon disabused of the
Idea, and for his careless thought he
must answer to Justice Crutchfield this
morning. Police officials and IMnker
ton detectives were on the alert for
signs of attempted disorder, and not
even a soldier was permitted to start a
riotous act.
To-day will lie "Children's Day."
.State Health Commissioner Williams
has stated that no children will bo
barred at the gates. To-morrow will
he knoyn as "Automobile Day," when
speed and economy races will bo run.
nilUCCTOHM MSAVK CASK
TO l,OCA I, AIFTIIOHIT1F.S
At a meeting of the hoard of direc
tors, hold yesterday afternoon at 12:10
o'clock, no action against the soldiers
charged with disorderly conduct In the
grounds Wednesday night was contom
plated or authorised. The matter, will1
(Continued on Fifth Page ) \
?i wfjljvn? rAuiLj). rAtiK v"?UNjsutt
TV/ne British Steamers
Slip Out to Sea Under
Cover 0/ Darkness
Squadron of Cruisers Will
A etas Escort for Muni
(ion-Laden Ships in
Danger Zone.
(.Special to The Times-Dispatch.)
NHW YOltK. October 12.?Hearted by
the 24.000-ton White Star liner Adriatic
with a $7,000,000 cargo and 330 passen
gers, a (lot ilia of nine British mer
chantmen. with munitions of war. slip
ped out to sea to-night. The vessels
bad remained at anchor all afternoon
within the three-mile limit off Sandy
Hook.
As soon as darkness shut out the
shore line, the propellers of the Adriatic
commenced to turn, and she crept awa>
on her voyage to I.iverpool. the rich
est prize on the seven seas to-day.
A squadron of British cruisers, sum
moned by wireless from the West In
die". Bermuda, the Bahamas and Hali
f.?.\ by Admiral Montagu Browning met
her. They will act as an escort for
the bin liner and the eight freighters
that followed in her wake through the
danger /.one in which Admiral Brown
ing thinks the F-f?3 and her companions
may still l>e waiting.
The Adriatic left her pier at 12:30 P.
M. just half an hour later than her
advertised sailing time. She passed
the Battery a little after I o'clock, and
steamed slowly down the bay through
the Narrows to anchor at Sandy Hook
until nightfall. When she passed the
Narrows, the Ctinard steamer, Pannonla.
which has been waiting since Sunday
with her cargo of explosives in (irave
send Bay. left her anchorage, and fol
lowed astern of the bier liner.
LOAUi:i) TO CAI'.tCITV
WITH WAH MIXTIONS
I .a ter in the afternoon, the British
steamers Bast (late. TMpton, 1 oftwood
and Strathstey. all under charter to the
French Bine, and loaded to capacity
with war munitions, left their anchor
ages and joined Ihe Adriatic and Pan
nonia off the Hook. The last two of the
tlotillu. the freighter Ardgorrock und
the Atlantic, transport steamer Minne
haha. with 1.400 tons of munitions on
board, passed through the Narrows at
5 o'clock.
The reasons for the movement of so
many munition carriers at one time are
said to be the availability at this time
of the cruiser squndron as an escort,
and the superstition that so many
skippers have about sailing on a. Fri
day. To-morrow being Friday, the
thirteenth, it was realized that, unless
the vessels not away to-night another
whole day might he wasted and Satur
day might not prove so favorable. Fur
thermore, the C.'edrlc and Bovic. two
Other big British freighters, are due to
reach port to-morrow, and the presence
of the allied cruisers would enhance
their chances for a safe arrival.
Fulled States battleship Nevada and
several torpedo-boat destroyers have
been sighted off the coast and their
presence was attributed to the known
arrival of the British and French crui
sers. and the determination of Presi
dent Wilson that there shall he no vio
lation of American neutrality.
1.IFK HO ATS swim; ijicovuhku
ItlOAOY roll nillHHIATH I* MR
Before the Adriatic left her pi??r. Cap
tain J. B. Bunion ordered nil rt>e life
boats uncovered, and supplied with
provisions and water. The falls were
loosened and pulleys inspected. NN bile
at anchor off the Hook, the life boats
were swung outward in readiness for
immediate use. Bife belts were served
to the passengers, most of whom seem
to have been told that the British crui
sers would guard them from submarine
attack.
Of the thirty-eight tirst-cabin pas
sengers. four are Americans*?XI. A.
Emerson, a New York commission mer
chant; R. B. Brassington. who is in
the safe business in this oily: W tl
liam J. Wilson and his wife, who are
going to Join the Bondon Hippodrome
forces. There were several Americans
among the l!>S second-cabin passengers,
but their names were not available,
owing to the holiday. In the third
cabin were I IT passengers, mostly
Canadians, and no known American
citizens were among thein.
The departure of the Adriatic re
called to the minds of most of the pas
sengers and their friends on the pier
the sailing <>f ?he Busilania in the
face of * warning, not nearly as em
phatic as that given by the activities
of the. F-33 last Sunday.
Good-byes were said solemnly, and
every on< seemed subdued. Kven per
sonal friends of Captain Hanson went
on board to shake him by the hand.
SIXTRRV "TANKS" I.ASIIRH
TO IIRK FOIIWAItl) UKCK
The Adriatic's IH.0O0 tons of freight
consisted chiefly of foodstuffs and mu
nitions of war of every description, ex
cepting explosives. Bashed to her
forward deck ?'>r? sixteen tractors, or
"tanks." to be use?l on the western
front Bach "tank" weighed 30.0M0
pounds. Aeroplanes and their parts
ulso were shipped as deck cargo.
As the liner moved away from her
pier and harked into the North Blver.
she was grectei} by cheer* from the
people along lb- water front and by
the whistle* of all craft In the harbor.
The whistling accompanied her all the
way to the Narrows.
The Adriatic has a speed of nineteen
knots, and i- the largest and fastest
vessel now in merchant service. ( ap
taln Hanson said:
"1 have no fear of the l -?3. and aa
soon as I get the word. I will put the
liner to her best speed."
High Honors lor Woman l.nvryer.
iny Associated Press.)
WASHINGTON, October 12.?Jessie
B Gossncr, a woman attorney of New
Orleans, to-day was admitted to prac
tice before the Supreme Court.
; NEUTRALITY PATROL
i MAY BE ESTABLISHED
i
Three Destroyers Leave Newport at
l-'iill Speed for Eastern roast
of Maine.
! DKKIMTK PLAN COMI'LKTKI)
| Should Submarine Hauls Continue,
i Kosultant Restraint on American
) Internal Interests May Heroine
Serious Consideration.
I liy AKt-oelilU'tl I
MiWI'oliT, ll. I.. October 12.? When
j three destroyers, the Jarvis. Drayton
j and Kanning, steamed out of the hnr
I bor at full speed lute to-dn.v it. was
, reported that they would begin a neu
' trallty patrol along the Now Kugland
| t oast as a result of the recent German
submarine raid. Other destroyers in
! tli?' harbor were getting' up steam.
Itear-Admiral Austin M. Knight, coin
I niandant of the Nurragansett Bay naval
station, would not .confirm the report,
but said thut. while no oflldul action
had been taken to put a neutrality
! patrol Into effect, it was probable that
! such a patrol woultl be established
j within a very short time.
, From unofficial sources it was un
I derstood that the destination of the
j three destroyers was the eastern coast
of Maine, In the vicinity of Bar Harbor.
! MIX l)S OK OF Fit; IA I,S ICASKO
UV INVKSTIOAVIO.V QK.KA.1D9
1 Hv Ahsoi-I;?i?mI I'ress. I
| WASHINGTON, October 12.?Investi
gation of Germany's submarine opcra
1 tlons olY Nantucket apparently has
cased the minds of officials here, but
j it was said authoritatively to-night
that, should the situation develop pro
| longed paralysis of American trade in
: the Atlantic, or any similar Injury to
I vital American interests, n broad issuo
| might be raised transcending the spc
I clfic questions of international law dts
! cussed in connection with the L'-boat
! raid.
' .Such considerations as the disloca
tion of shipping alon^ the Atlantic sea
board, the great increase in marlno
Insurance rates and the possibility of
serious freight congestion and railroad
embargoes have been foremost in the
! minds of officials, it was indicated, and
I will determine largely the tjovern
j merit's policy if an extensive subina
< rlne campaign is attempted on ibis sido
'of the Atlantic.
One high othcial expressed ?he view
that the unprecedented situation In
1 volvcs <|tiestions which can be consid
ered only in an extra-legal light. He
suggested that the narrow and dimly
defined situations of international law
could lot be depended on entirely to
meet developments vitally affecting tho
nation's internal Interest.
NO C'A l.'SK KOIl CO.1l I'liA I N'i'
l\ S1NKINC lll 'IH II Still*
i The sinking of the Witch steamer
I Ulooiuersdijk. Hying a neutral !la>:. and
j plying between two neutral ports, is
' understood to be one ot" the eonside.ra
j tions that has led otllclals t?> View with
i apprehension the future of submarine
I operations off American shores. What
j measures Germany may contemplate
against neutral tiude out of American
ports is a matter of lively speculation.
Regarding t'ae Bloomersdi jit case
specifically, however, the State Depart
j tnent is understood to feel that this
government has no cause for com
plaint.
So f;ir the departinenl has made no
extensive investigation of the Nan
tucket raid on American trade, and is
expected to consider that Incident sole
ly on its merits as an individual case
iri international law. Should such
j raids continue, however, the resultant
restraint on American interests may
] become a serious consideration.
, While no immediate steps ate in
I contemplation for I he actual estab
lishment of a naval neutrality patrol
ialong'the. Atlantic coast as a result of
the German submarine raid, the Navy
t Department has completed a definite
' plan to be put Into operation if the
j campaign continues.
The entire destroyer i'? lee. active and
J reserve, assisted by light cruisers,
Inavy tugs and other auxiliary craft,
would be employed to protect American
territorial waters ami also to prevent
1 the establishment <>f any secret bases
j aslion or communication between
shore radio stations and the bellig
erent era ft
The possibility of mob)..zing the
j force of privately owned motor-boats
| along the coast which have been en
I rolled with their crews as a part of
the naval reserve, was flrst considered,
| but various obstacles were encountered.
J ASSHJNKO TO nilHHItVK,
MIII'S KOIl SKIIV1CK
Naval militia officers and men al
ready have been assigned to reserve
ships for service If necessary.
The Navy Department to-day re
(Continued on Second Pago")
First Trolley Line
Built in Richmond
I Uy Associated Press. I
All,ANTIC CITV, October li.?
Election of oftlcer* nnd a historical
review of the Industry by Crunk J.
Sprague, who promoted and built the
first commercially successful trolley
line Id Itlchmond. In ISMS, were the
feature* of to-dny'n sessions of tlie
nnnunl convention of the American
Klcetric Itullway Association.
I#. S. Storrs, president of IHr Con
necticut Company, New llnven, wni
chosen president, und K. II. Ilnrrltt,
New 'York, uns re-elected necretary
treasurer.
LED PRICE, TWO CENTS
WILSON REPLIES
TO E. 0. P. CHARGE
OF SECTIONALISM
[Any Man Who Revives Issue
Unworthy of Nation's
Confidence, He Says.
i
DECLARES IT DEPTH OF
ANTIPATRIOTIC FEELING
/Visits Indianapolis for Centennial
j Celebration and Delivers Three
Nonpartisan Speeches.
t
aiu;lks foh ?ooi> uoads cacsk
i
Disciisscs Work of Democratic Ad
! ministration for Farmers
of This Country.
1 11v- .\smm Prr*s. !
IXhIAXAPOLIS, 1 SIX. October U'.?
, President Wilson to-day replied to the
! Republican charge that tho Democratic
party is :\ sectional party with the
I statement that "any man who revives
| the issue of sectionalism in this coun
' try is unworthy of the coitlidence of
i the nation.'"
The President came to Indianapolis
I to address meetings of good-roads
I advocates and farmers, review an auto
mobile parade celebrating: good-roads
| day of the Indiana Centennial, and
I attend a nonpartisan lunch of leading
Indinnlaiis. lie was seen by crowds
which packed the streets for blocks.
In bis first sot speech he spoke of the
ur?oil done by highways in preventing
sectionalism.
"My fellow-citizens." he continued.
"I need not tell you that 1 did not
come here to talk politics, but thero
is one thing that is pertinent in this
connection which J cannot deny myself
! the privilege of saying. Any man who
j revives the issuo of sectionalism in
this country is unworthy of tho cou
I rtdence of the nation. Ho shows him
j self a provincial; ho shows that he
I himself does not know tho various scc
| Hons of his own country; he shown
| that he Iras shut his own heart up in
! a little provlnco, and that those who
do not eeek the special interests of
that province are to him sectional,
while he alone is national. That is the
depth of antlpatriotlc feeling."
GUI;ST AT I.UNCIIKOX
GIVEN BY GOVUUNOIt
President Wilson delivered his tirst
addrt-s3 at tho fair grounds, and ulso
spoko briefly at a luncheon? givcii "iiitiV
by Governor and'Mrs. Samuel M. Ral
ston, of Indiana.
The second sot upeoch was devoted
to it discussion of tho works of
the Democratic administration for the
farmers of tho nation.
The President loft here this after
noon for Long Branch, N. J., wher#
he will arrivo to-morrow afternoon.
President' Wilson, in his good-roads
speech, said, in part:
"1 am hero bocausc of my interest
in good roads and becauso of my in
terest in tho State of Indiana.
"It is perfectly obvious that you have
got to have an intricate and perfect
network of roads throughout tho
length and broadth of this great con
tinent before you will have released
, the energies of America. Good roads
aro necessary for every practical aspect
of our lives, to draw neighborhoods
together, to create community of feel
ing.
"And ao the argument, the material
argument, tho argument about markets
and crops and the products of tho
mines, sink into relative unimportance
when yovt consldor tho spiritual thing
that you are doing in making roads.
The only thing that binds a nation
together Is the knowledge of its sev
eral parts of each other."
rilESEJiT INTKHKST CHIKKLY l\
NATIONALIZATION OI<' .HEMHEIt.S
Mr. Wilson here referred to the issue
of sectionalism.
"And that is my interest in good
roads, for, my follow-cltlzens, my pres
, out intorost is "chiefly in tho natlonal
j l/.atlon of America. . . .
"And, therefore, the thing that I am
! more interested in than anything olso
j in these days is the forces that make
! for drawing America togothor into a
] great spiritual unit.
"Sow, my fellow-citizons, we have
| had time and opportunity until the
j present to do pretty much what we
I wanted in America, and to do different
l ihings in different parts of America.
| Put just an soon as this great Eu
ropean war is over America has got
to stand for one thing, and only one
thing, in the world, and sho must be
ready with united force. . . .
".So that the words I want you to
carry In your mind in connection with
this good-roads cause aro these: first,
nationalization, getting all the fibers
jot this great vital peoplo united in a
; single organism; second, mobilization,
j netting them so related to each other,
' so co-ordinated, so organizod, so united,
[ that when they move they move'as a
| single great irresistiblo conquering
force. And the third word that I want
! you to consider is the word that I
I suppose affords the key to doing these
j things. That word is the word co
operation. . .
"Instead of exclusive combinations.
1 want to see universal co-opora
I tion. . . .
Ml.t'COAUD IN ItKlaATIONS
IIKTWKK.V CAPITAL. AND LA BO It
I "There Is one Held in which wc are
particularly sluggard in respect of this.
1 mean the relations between capital
and labor. Nothing can bo for tho in
terest of capital that is not in the in
terest of lnbor, ami nothing enn be in
the interest of labor which is not in
tho Interest of capital. If men want
to get rich, they must have human
relationships with those who help thojn
to get rich. That is a lesson that men
havo beon cxeeodlngly slow to letrn.
