fogngawa othat Pon- or1
totowhich its cirmIabon-the dbn am rusmsa
largest in the morning field-en- the day. It p5set the store awe of
___ __ __ __it.__ the daY in tame for the day's buyis.
+Te. THE. *IERALD
NO. 3647. WEATHER-CLOUDY; WARMER. WASHINGTON. D. C,. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1916. ONE CENT
BOSTON SOX WIN
'16 CHAMPIONSHIP
American Leaguers Take Last
Game of World Series.
By DAMON RVNYON.
4Internatiemal New Service.)
Boston. Oct. 12.-The world series
of 1916 is over and the baseball cham
pionship remains Boston's. The Bos
ten Red Box. champions of the Ameri
ean League this year. and winners of
the world championship last year re
tained their title by taking the fifth
frame of the '16 series today from the
Brooklyn Dodgers, pennant winners in
the National League.
In all the Red Box won four games.
The Dodgers took one-the third. The
sdore this afternoon was 4 to 1. but
the game never struck one as being
that close.
"Well, we done our durndest." said
T6ur Uncle Wilbert Robinson. man
ager of the Brooklyn Dodgers, as he
waddled off the fBela at the finish.
"but our durndest wasn't good enough.
We-- No one knows wbat he in
tended to add to his statement.
He was suddenly engulfed by great
waves of derby hats and heavy over
coats which splashed up over the ro
bust Robbie until he was lost to view.
Biggest Crowd of Sertes.
This was the biggest crowd that ever
saw a world series game. There were
42.00 packed in the grand stand and
4 bleachers, and in a sort of corral beyon
center field. In the first game here be
tween the Red Sox and the Phillies last
)ear there were 42.320 present.
It was Coluribus Day, a legal holiday.
That undoubtedly had something to do
with the else of the crowd; that and the
fact that it seemed to be the general
opinion that the Box would close up the
series today.
The historians of the diamond, massed
up In the press box, officially closed their
dog-eared score books on the struggle
only when slender young Everett Scott.
short-fielding sensation of the series.
caught a fly from the bat of the veteran
Mike Mowrey in the ninth. but as a mat
ter of fact the game was over long be
fore that.
It was really over after the third, when
the Box broke out in front free a tie
sere through 43 openo 9d,40 by
Doder keficiney.
She" Allows Three Hits.
From that moment until the end "Long'
Shore, the drawly-voiced, high-pocketed
lad from North Carolina. held the Dodg
ers at the bend in his curve. He gave
them but three hits in the whole game,
while the Dodgers were bogging down
back of big Ed Pfeffer, as they have
bogged down behind their other hurlers.
Somehow, after the third, no one seemed
to expect the Dodgers to rally. In the
nrst game they came from far behind on
'Long" Shore and drove him from the
mound in the ninth inning. but today it
soon became apparent to all that the
North Carolinian had them in the hollow
:>f his tobacco-stained glove.
Besides that the Dodgers played in a
fashion that gave the observer an im
pression of helplessness. They seemed
to be playing without spirit. They got
a one-run lead on the Red Box in the
second inning, but the Red Sox tied it
up in their end of the very same inning.
The Box put one in mind of a great
fighter who goes along holding his op
oonent safe until such time as he chooses
to finish the affair.
* Down in the hot stove league of the ap
proaching winter months it Is likely that
:onsiderable attention will be paid to
Zach Wheat, sometimes called the swift
!st left fielder in the National League.
"Jinx" Fellows beat.
A sinister "Jinx" visits itself upon
some individual ball player in nearly
every world seres, and.Wheat has been
the unfortunate victim in the series of
1916. In nearly every game, he has made
some play that aroused criticism, and
torIay's game was no exception.
Ivan Olson, shortfielder of the Dodgers,
also fell afoul of his own particular
hoodoo again today, but Ivan has the
advantage over Wheat of having oc
cupied the position of hero for a few
fleeting hours.
It wou lie most unkind, however, to
single out iny member of the Brooklyn
club as a target for aspersion. It is
better to draw the kindly mantle of
silence over their short-comings and to
axree with Uncle Wilbert Robinson that
"they done their durndest."
This series demonstrates pretty con
clusively that there is something about
the American League that makes it
fully 3 per cent stronger than the old
National League.
An official today. of the latter organiza
tion, admitted this much.
The Boston Box won the American
League pennant after being battled to a
close finish by several pther clubs.
Brooklyn. the strongest and the most
consistent club in the National League.
had as one of Its leading contenders right
down to the last few days of the season
a club that was easy for the Red Sox
last year.
Weuld Abelish Series.
Now that the world's series of 1916 is
over, baseball men are saying that the
best thing that could happen to the Na
tional League and the gamie In general is
the abolition of the series for at least
several years to come.
The 5-des-and this season's series
more than any other-Is taking the spe
cies of petty graft on the public.
Immediately after the first game some
of the ball players were talking not of
CGhTINUTED ON PAGE TBN.
FOR SALF,-FARM L.ANS.
. Is AcaU8 1KB azeme. amor
daIry hrm: 7 miles o- a~ss smt ad
me--Aem res; pir me. Addres
BO1 M, ue~ren= Vs.
* OppOirtunity knocks not one.,
but scores of times in the Want
Ad columns of The Herald every
day. This Is one today-you'll
Bad many other, on page 11.
e
MASONS TO BUILD
Costly Scottish Rite Temple to
Be Erected Down Town.
A temple. for Scottish Rite Masons
that will rival any local edifice in mag
nifleence and comforts will be erect
ed in Washington in the near future.
according to an announcement made
last night by Soevreign Grand Com
mander George Fleming Moore at the
annual dinner in the new Ebbitt.
Mr. Moore said the building would
not even be surpassed by the temple
of national Masonic allegiance which
now stands at Sixteenth and S streets
northwest.
He said the proposed temple would
be in Doric architecture, and worthy
of the order to which it shall be a
monument, lie favored a down
town location.
Lem Towers. jr.. a prominent member
of the organization. last night said:
'"'he idea of the new temple is in its
Infant stage. but the project has received
the support of the entire organization.
The proposed temple will be in the nature
of a local ediflce wherein the business
and social features pertaining to the af
fairs of the Scottish Rite Masons in this
citv will be transacted.
"It will replace the present temple of
the local body, locatei at Third and E
streets northwest. and on its completion
Washington will have two temples com
memorating Scottish Rite Masonry-the
National Temple, which is located at Six
teenth and S streets northwest, and the
new local one.
"Although the National Temple is a
marvel of architecture and design and
has become one of the favorite haunts of
CONTINUED ON PAGE TWO.
POLICE ARREST MEN
ACCUSED BY GIRLS
Officials Investigating Stories Told by
Young Women Found in Hotel.
Two young women, giving the names
of Dorothy Morrell and Mary Andrews.
21 and 19, respectively, and their ad
dresses as Fulton street, New York City.
were arrested on charges of grand lar
ceny here early yesterday morning. They
were found in a prominent hotel in com
pany with Augustine Cornell. 24. and
nmald B. Strain. 3. both of Bnaklyn.
N. Y., under whose names they were reg
itered, and whom they claim brought
them to this city from Waterbury. Conn.,
where they were employed as waitresses.
The charge against the two girls orig
inated 4rom the complaint of Joseph A.
Strade, of St. Louis. who told the police
he had missed a diamond stickpin from
his room in another downtown hotel.
where he says he recently had the girls
as his guests. The pin, valued at $100,
was found behind a door of the rooms
occupied by the girls.
It was not until Policemen A. P. Romer
and H. K. Wilson. of the Sixth precinct,
went to the hotel where the girls were
staying that they learned the circum
stance. In which toe women were living.
Miss Morrell was found registered as
Lottie Cornell. Miss Andrews was reg
istered as Marie Strain. Strain and Cor
nell were taken to the Sixth precinct and
held on charges of investigation, and Dis
trict Attorney Laskey has taken up the
case as a result of the stories told by the
girls.
According to the girls, they met the
two men in Waterbury. Conn., where
they were waitresses and where Cornell
and Strain were empIgyed by a Boston
studio soliciting orders for enlarging pho
tographs. They said they were taken to
Hartford, Conn. They claim they were
two weeks there and were then taken to
Springfield, Mass.. where they spent ten
days, later coming on to New York City
for ten days, and from there to Wash
ington.
The men denied that they brought the
girls here.
ALL NATIONS SEEKING
PEACE, GERMAN AVERS
Reichstag Told Talk of War Being
Wanted Is "Bunk."
(B5y the Internattoal News Service.)
Berlin (via Sayville). Oct. 12.-"What is
French shall stay French: what is Bel
gian shall stay Belgian, and what is Ger
man shall stay German: That is the main
basis upon which the coming peace will
be constructed."
In the broadest speech dealing with
peace delivered in the Reichstag since
the outbreak of the war. August Scheinde
man, powerful Socialist leader, made the
above statement today, continuing:
"The chances for peace are poor to
day. Since B~ftnd and Loyd George talk
war to the bitter end, the chancellor is
unable to talk peace. But we are free to
do so. All the nations want peace. If
the contrary is said in any country then
it is absolutely a swindle."
HOSIERY BANK ROBD.
Yemng Woman Says Flaneee Drug
ged Hers and Took "Rol."
New York, Oct. 12-Charged with steal
ing his fiancee's bankroll from her stock
Ing savings bank, Joseph Masserew was
arrested today in Yonkers. The compain
ant is Miss May Kriden.
She asserts that Masserew asked her
for her money to furnish a home for
them. Refusing, she charges her fiance
drugged her coffee and robbed the hosiery
bak while she was in a stupor.
XAD KING REPORTED iEAD.
London, Oct. 11.-Otto, former King of
Bavaria, has died at Fuerstenreid Castle,
near Munich, says an Exchange Telegraph
dispatch from Copenhagen today. The
Exchange dispatch says that his death
was officially announced in Berlhn.
Otto was deposed in 1913 and was mue
eeded by Ludwig III, formerly regsent.
Otto, who was mentally der'anged, had
been in confinement since 1872.
Reduset F e e' Vetees,
monthn= ==1 os ult-.age--...
GREECE SUBMITS
UNDER PROTEST
Yields to Demands of Allies
Presented by Du Fournot.
(by the International News Service.)
Athens. Oct. 12.-The Greek govern
today made public a long state
ment in which it submits under pro
test to the demands of the entente
allies as presented by Vice Admiral
Du Fournot, commander of the allied
fleet.
The Piraeus-Larisza Railway, the
have little or no effect on the con
duct of the allied armies and navies.
The Braeus-Larisza Railway, the
port of Piraeus, and police power in
the city has been taken over by the
entente. Three Greek warships have
been disarmed. The discharged mem
bers of their crews were enthusi
astically cheered in a reviewing in the
capital.
London. Oct. 12.-The entente tonight is
reported preparing to grant recognition to
the Greek revolutionists.
Financial support will be given the rebel
leader, M. Venizelos, former premier of
Greece, to raise an army, which will join
Ithe French, British, Russians and Ser
blans on the Macedonian front, accord
Ing to private dspatches reaching here.
This offer of cash has been tentatively
tendered to King Constantine. but the
monarch displayed no indication of ac
cepting. Meanwhile the revolutionary
army is being recruited to large force
and is being drilled prior to leaving for
the front.
The entire Venizelos provisional gov
ernment is likely to be recognized as the
ruling force in Greece, which now lies
prostrate. its every warship, fort and
rallway, besides postal and telegraphic
lines. in the hands of the allies.
ONE KILLED, 20 HURT
DURING STRIKE RIOT
Mobs Rush Through Bayonne Streets.
Battling Police.
(By The International News Service.)
Bayonne, N. J., Oct. 1--One man
was killed and more tha twenty in
lured is rioting here g5day Incident
to the strike of the Standard Oil
workers. Many arrests were made
Some of the strikers were severely
clubbed by the police.
The ten Standard Oil plants in Bay
onne. which had been operated with
strike breakers yesterday were closed.
Through the strike zone the aug
mented police force, in two divisions
mae several excursions, driving riot
lers before them, or into the houses.
Hundreds were searched for weapons.
The killing occurred at Twenty
first street and Prospect avenue. Isa
dor Naliteky, a young attorney, enter
ed the riot zone to see what was go
ing on. Firing from house tops be
gan when the police were sighted.
Nalitsky fell with a bullet through his
body, just under the heart, and died
almost instantly.
Edward Green. also drawn by curl
oafty to the strike zone, was shot
through the head and is in a pre
carious condition.
CHARGED WITH MURDER,
HE SEEKS RE-ELECTION
St. Louis, Mo.. Oct. 12-The unusual
spectacle of a man accused of wife mur
der mounting the political stump and
campaigning for his own re-election as
prosecuting attorney-the official who,
under normal circumstances wodlid be the
prosecutor in just such a trial as this
man must undergo-was afforded the
voters of Missouri today.
Oscar D. McDaniel opened his cam
paign for re-election after having been
released under bond, following indictment
by the grand jury for the murder of his
wife.
"I am innocent of this awful crime."
said McDaniel in addressing a political
meeting at Woodbine School. "I am the
victim of a gigantic political plot, which
has at its base the machinations of a
gang of thieves and criminals."
CHINESE CO-ED ENTERS.
She Is Taking Business Aditisitra
tio Course in Boston University.
Boston, Oct. 12.-Miss Mabel Chin Fong,
the first Chinese girl to study at Boston
tUiversity, has enrolled as a student in
that institution and will specialize in
business methods, with- a view of return
ing to China to teach.
Miss Fong is the daughter of Chen
Fong, of 18 Harrison avenue, and is a
graduate of the Girls' High School. She
will be a student in the College of Busi
ness Administration and plans to take
the full course.
ICI CREAN LIQUOR'S ENEXY.
U. of P. Profesesr Tells Makers Nut.,
terinilk Ala. Wins Bibuleus.
Atlantic City.,ct 12--"Buttermilk and
ice cream are to econie as im
portant influences In solving the liquor
question." said Prof. G. H. BenkcendorfI
of the University of Pennsyivania, before
the National Association of Ice Cream
Manufacturere, at the Royal Palace Ho
ted, attended by more than 600 members
from every State in the Union,
Prof. Benkendorf said he looked upon~
ice cream and buttermilk as twins which'
are steadily at work drawing recruits
from the ranks of the bibuious.
Ellaworth, Me., Oct. 32.-,Azgested on
the strength of a Story lisped out by his
5-year-ld eon. Guy Small confeSsed today
to the murder of Mrs. Emmna Turnbull
on August 4. according to the authorities.
The boy told of his father comsing home
and burning a pair of blood-stained
trousers.
Mrs. Turnbull, a widow, was trapped In
her home on Desert Island and fought for
her life, but was anlly beatu uncon
scious. She wee then dragged to a nearby
patch of woods, ghelm hW bead wae
asusd with a saate.
FRENCH AND BRITISH
ADVANCE ALONG SOMMI
(Dy the INternatienal News Serviee,
Par).s Oct. 12.-A combined Franco
British offensive on a front of about 9vw
mile. north of the Somme resulted toda]
in appreciable progress for both armies
Gen. Foch's troops pressed forward to
ward the heights of Sailly-Saillisel fron
the west, while the British are stil
fighting for possession of a low ridig
which Intervenes between their position
and the bapaume and Peronne road.
The joint advance has had the resul
of broadening out the salient which ha
been pressed into the German front be
tween the important bases of Peronn
and Bapaume.'
Telegraph Tips
Prineeton. N. J.. Oct. 12.-George Wrigh
Glover. one of the several members o
the Princeton University faculty to tak,
up arms in the cause of the allica ha
been awarded the distinguished servic
order for gallant conduct and exampl,
during the Somme offensive, It has jus
been learned here.
Pottsville, Pa., Oct. 12.-The marriag,
of Miss Louise Veitinghoff, of this city
to T. Calvin Johnsog. of Washington, I
C., took place in the sickroom of th
bride here. Miss Veitinghoff Is con
valescent after an attack of typhcid
pneumonia. Rev. T-roy Eltringham. o
Trinity Episcopal Church. performed th
ceremony.
Philadelphia. Oct. 12-Just a week afte
Robert Killough. a contractor of 633
Greene street. Germantown, had bough
a touring car for $1,240, it was stole1
from him last night while he was at
tending prayer meeting at the First InAt
ed Presbyterian Church of Germantowti
London, Oct. 12 -The German govern
ment has decided to seize the stock
of tobacco throughout the empire, say
an Exchange Telegraph dispatch fron
Copenhagen. rt is expected that the i,
suance of tobacco tickets will follow th<
seizure.
The Hague. Oct. 12.-The Dutch govern
ment, It is learned, on the basis of fact
already ascertained will Immediately as]
Germany to explain the sinking of th.
Dutch steamship Blo-nmersdijk in th<
Atlantic off the New England coast las
Sunday.
Harrisburg. Oct. 12.-The dairy and foo<
division of the State Department of Agri
culture has Issued 2.880 licenses for th
sale of oleomargarine so far this yea
as compared with 2,919 for the entire yea
of 1915. The high cost of butter Is th
reason for the increase.
Berlin. Ot. 1-Dispatches from Copen
hagen to the eIews Agency a
that the R- ilr& *n the Nrna
coast, bordering on the Artic Ocean, wil
not be completed this year, despite th
employment of 20.0O0 workmen.
Rome. Oct. 12.-George Barr Baker, o
New York, a member of the commissloi
for the relief of Belgium. arrived her,
from Paris and London to confer wit]
committees which have been looking Int,
the needs of the children in the occupiei
portions of France and Belgium. The
have found something like 1,500,000 o
school age beginning to show the effect
of malnutrition. Their only hope, tho
committees say. is America. from whic1
aid must be continuous until the end o
the war.
Wilkesbarre. Pa.. Oct. 12.-Official pa
pers from the Supreme Court that enjoi:
the city authorities from enforcing th
jitney ordinances are expected to arriv
here today. As soon as they are receive<
the 500 jitneys that have been runni
only to the city boundary will again b
permitted to operate wghout restriction
Hammonton. N. J., Oct. 12-On th
opening day of the deer season the wood
were full of hunters wearing red head
gear. At least seven fine bucks fell be
fore the armv of sportsmen. No accident
were reported.
Atlantic City, N. J., Oct. 12.-Advance,
rates the country over will be virtuall:
forced as a result of the new grave prob
lems confronting public service headi
it was predicted at the annual conven
tion of the American Electric Railwa:
Association here.
Trenton. N. I.. Oct. 12.--Gov. Fielde
has approved the action of the Stat<
Department of Conservation and Levelop
ment in selling a forest tract in Atlanti
County to the Bethlehem Steel Compan:
to be used as a proving ground. Th,
tract includes about 260 acres.
New Haven. Conn.. Oct. 12-William H
Taft has accepted the honorary presi
dency of the Yale Republican Club, at
undergraduate organization. His sot
Charles P. Taft. 2d, is vice president.
Stamford, Conn., Oct. 12.-Miss Norm
Talmadge, motion picture star, and Jo
seph M. Schenck, theatrical manager an<
motion picture producer, of New York
have obtained a marriage license here.
Ithaca. N. Y., Oct. 12.-The body o
Edison C. Hicks. of Rushville, N. Y., 4
sophomore in the Cornell College of Agri
culture, has been found hanging from 4
tree near the Agricultural College barns
Galgary, Ala.. Oct. 12.-A pitched bat
te between soldiers and the police ha,
occurred here, during which many shqti
were fired and the barracks of the mount
ed police were wrecked an set on fire
Binghamton, N. Y.. Oct. 12-8aline Ful
Ier, 8 years old, while on her way t
school found a dynamite cartridge whil
she carried to thme schoolhouse. There shi
attempted to open the object when ther<
was an explosion. e*Mrs. G. Broughton
the school teacher, had the thumb and
three fingers of one hand blown off an
several chIldren were seriously hurt.
Atlantic City, N. 3., Oct. 12.-The gov
ernmnent will be asked to extend the pres
ent Investigation into the alleged pe
troleum monopoly to include material,
used by the National Association o
Paint. Oil and Varnish Manufacturer.
Delegates in conventiorn et the Traymor
Hotel charged that the abnormal price
demanded for bensine, naphtha and othe
Products used by them were unwarranted
London, Oct. 12.-The sinking of th
Norwegian steamer Birk, of 715 tons, I
reported by a Reuter dispatch frot
Christiania. The crew was saved.
Vienna (via Berlin wriseess), Oct. 12.
The Italian base at Avalona, in AlbanIa
was bombed by Auste ungarian aves
tprs on Tuesday night and muich dameg
was done, it'was omefaly announced to
day.
Levee! ecee., emem 3=== Tet,
Special traine 13:45 .m 1 m. weel
dwua. Balimr Uand ae_ n
U-BOATS DEFIED
BY 9 BIG SHIPS
Adriatic Leads Flotilla Away
from U. S. Shores.
(By the Internatienal News Service.)
New York, Oct. 12-Headed by the 24.
000 ton White Star liner Adriatic with a
7.000,000 cargo and 336 passengers, a no
tilla of nine British merchantmen with
munitions of war slipped out to sea to
night. The vessels had remained at
anchor all afternoon within the three
mile limit of Sandy Hook.
As darkness shut down the shore line
the propellers of the Adriatic commenced
to turn and she crept away on her voy
age to Liverpool, the richest prize on the
seven seas today.
A squadron of British cruisers, sum
moned by wireless from the West Indies,
Bermuda, the Bahamas and Halifax, by
Amiral Montagu Browning. met her. They
will act as an escort for the big liner
and the eight freighters that followed in
her wake through the danger zone in
which Admiral Browning thinks the 1-53
and her companions may still be waiting.
The Adriatic left her pier at 12:30 p.
M. and steamed slowly down the bay to
anchor at Sandy Hook until niglitfalL
The Cunard steamer Panonia, with a
cargo of explosives, followed astern of
the big liner.
Later in the afternoon the British
- steamers Eastgate, Dipton, Toftwood and
i Strathstey, all under charter to the
French line and loaded with war muni
.tions, joined the Adriatic and Panonia.
i The last two of the flotilla, the freighter
Ardgorrock and the Atlantic Transport
steamer Minnehaha, with 1,400 tons of
munitions on board. passed through the
Narrows at 6 o'clock.
United States battleship Nevada and
several torpedoboat destroyers have been
sighted off the coast and their presence
was attributed to the known arrival of
the British and French cruisers and the
determination of President Wilson that
there shall be no violation of American
neutrality.
OFFERS FIVE NEW 0.
SITES FOR NAVY PLANT
President Moran. of Chamber of Com
merce. Suggests Other Locations.
Five new locations for the Sl1,00K000 gov
ernment armor plate plant were filed with
the Secretary of the Navy yesterday by
President P. T. Moran, of the Washirag
ton Chamber of Commerce.
The new properties supplement those
which have been previously advocated.
and four of them are in the District, while
the fifth is on the Virginia shore adjacett
to the Capital.
The additional brief offered to the Navy
Department yesterday recites the advant
ages of the new locations and gives cr. u
lative evidence for the location of the
plant on a site adjacent to the seat.of tne
government.
President Moran, w~o has worked un
ceasingly for the new armor plant, is
encouraged by the putside cities and
towns which have indorsed the plan cf
having the new industry located in Wash
ington.
At the outset it was understood that the
general board of the navy was inclined
. toward the selection of a site in th- -en
. ter of the ordnance factories. Pennsy'
vania offers many advantages. but err-I
ments and advantages firesented uy the
local board have been so compelling that
I the selection of a District site is cn,
r pected.
Among the new sites suggested is one
that is now owned by the government,
that from the standpoint of economy, the
r District sites have an advantage that no
outside properles offer.
Alexandria. headed by Representatie
Carlin, presented its case yesterday
CHURCH URGED TO BAN
WEDDING OF DIVORCEES
St. LouIs, Oct. 1.--Recommendation
that the ministers of the church be for
bidden to marry persons who have been
divorced was made to the general con
vention of the Protestant Episcopal
Church here this afternoon by the joint
commission appointed by church heads to
investigate the 'evil."
Remarriage after an anullment would
be permitted only by special consent of
the bishop.
The present canon permits marriages of
1,the "innocent' parties in divorce suits.
L
800 00 MN NMED.
England Findi It Necessawy to
Ntr-engthen Arm&e.
London, Oct. 12-Betwen 500.000 and
S00, more men will be required for the
British army within the next six months.
That is the dictum put up to Parlis
mentary leaders by the man-power dis
tribution board.
One of the big problems facing the pres
ent session of Parliament is to find more
men for the army without working any
special hardship in any quarte?
$100,000 TAXR FR01 MATT.
P,o..~e 3maueeter. Probe Long
bevies of Thefts.
INew York, Oct.l11-Postoffice inspee
tors eae investigating a long series of
thefts of stock from registered mail. The
stock is valued at nearly 1100,000.
Discovery of the theft. was- made
through the complaint of John Berg,
brokar. of b Broad street, who on August
2sent by registel'ed mail 100 shares of
,stock to .ierome, Arts., the headquarters
of the minng company issuing the shares,
for transfer to new. purchasers, The
stock was in five 100-share Iota.
"DRYB" TOUR IlLHOIB.
Collinasvllm, IIl,. Oct. 1l.-The prohibi
tion epecial train of .1. Frank Hanily and
Dr. Ira Ladrith, Prohibition candidates
for Preddsiat and Vies President. reapec
telsdaits fist stop here early to
day on a, pgrain that wi include short
smaabnha ma saeme inanown..
HUGHES EMPHATIC
Would Have Broken with Ger
many Over Lusitania
(By the laternatieal News sretsi.)
Louisville, Ky., Oct. 1I-"What would
you have done when the Lusitania was
sunk." Charles E. Hughes was asked
from the audience here tonight by one of
a group of hecklers.
Hughes' reply was that he would have
broken off diplomatic relations with Gbr
many, after warning, following the notice
printed in the newspapers by the Ger
man Ambassador, If the Lusitania had
been sunk.
Hughes was discussing peace when a
man rose in the gallery and said. "I ask
with all respect, what you would have
done when the Lusitania was sunk-see
if you can answer this."
Hughes replied:
"I will answer. sir-I would have had
the State Department at the very be
ginning of the administration so equipped
as to command the respect of the world.
"Second. I would have so conductad af
fairs In Mexico as to show that our words
meant peace and good will. to the pro
teltion at all events of the lives and
Iproperty of American citizens.
"And next, when I said 'strict account
ability' every nation would have known
that that was meant, and further when
notice was published with respect to the
action threatened I would have made It
known in terms unequivocable and unmis
takable. that we should not tolerate a
continuance of friendly relations through
the ordinary diplomatic channels if that
action was taken-and the Lusitania, sir,
would never have been sunk."
LSON HITS HUGiHES
IN DIRECT ATTACK
Says Man Who Stirs Up Sectionalism
Is Not Worthy of Con6dence.
(By the International News Service.)
Indianapolis. Ind., Oct 12.-President
Wilson's visit here today was celebrated
by the people of Indianapolis a a hol
day and by Tom Taggart's organization
as a political rally.
Taggart endeavored in every way to
make it a big day for the Democracy of
Indiana. The creod. howeve, refused
to follow Mr. Wilson to the fair grounds
in sufflcient numbers to fill more than
two-thirds of the seats in the Coliseum.
This was to have been the big meet
ing of the day. The President suited his
address at the Coliseum to the occasion
by addressing good roads as it "was the
good roads day of the Indiana cen
tennial.'
He touched on politics only once when
he declared the lack of good roads con
tributed to sectionalism. "Any manwho
revives sectionalism in this country is
unwerthy of the confIdence of the na
tion." Mr. Wilson asserted.
This was understood by the audience
to be a thrust at Mr. Hughes and was
cheered, with Taggart leading the ap
plause.
U-53 ADVANCE GUARD
OF SUBMARINE FLEET
Woman Says Capt. Rose Declared 300
Submersibles Are Coming.
(By the Internatienal News Service.)
Newport, R. L. Oct 12--Germany plans
to sweep the sea with a notilla of 300
submarines. Such was the statement to
day of Mrs. Noah Thompson, formerly
Fraulein Wilhelmina Schell. quoting Capt.
lana Rose, of the German submarine
U-58, who called at her home while he
was visiting here October 7.
Mrs. Thompson told today the sub
stance of the conversation she had with
apt. Rose. She says he told her that
the letter he mailed to Count von Bern
Storff, besides informing him of his ar
rival in Newport, gave the information
of Germany's plan to gain control of the
seas with submarines.
"By the first of January," Mrs. Thomp
son said Capt. Rose stated, "it is Ger
many's plan to sweep the seas clear of
enemy ships by submarine warfare. This
plan will be voted for by the Reichstag
and carried out to the letter no matter
what happens or what is said."
'Mrs. Thonpcon has five brothers in the
German army.
FOUND DEAD ON ROAD;
BULLET THROUGH HEART
The body of George Shaw, a resident of
Riverdale, Md., and an employe of the
Postoffice Department in this city, was
found last night in Edmonston road. near
Hyattsville, Md., with a bullet through
the heart. A motorman of the City and
Suburban Railway made the discovery.
The motorman notifed Coroner Daley.
of Bladensburg, who summoned his phy
sician, Dr. Rt. B. Johnstone, and a te'm
porary jury. After viewing the body, the
jury placed It in the hand, of an mnder.
taker. The inquest will he held in the
Bladensburg jail tonight at '7 o'clook.
The victim, who receatly lost his wife,
had two minor cbildren,
Matteaw, Omee Vumg of Emmeg
Thaw, New Sputum Him.
IBeacon, N. Y., Oct. lI-.Narry K., Thaw
paid Matteawan a friendly visit today,
Accompanied by his secreary 'an ee
eral friends, he motored out to the Stuat
Hospital for the Crainal Insaas, from
which he mad, his famous esoape to
CamAne
Thaw's efforts to revive old emes
was frustratid, however, by Dr. Rt. 1. C.
Kieh, the superintemdent. Re refuned ad
Beacon for dim..
TEHB GANZC SURE IIUaT
Petrograd, Osi. IZ-aUmbe, get...d
sweets and garito inmmens with eksalma
bacilli were hated by - h
Romermalnt. UM ga W~s
WOULD PUT BAN
ON WAR VESSELS
Gosing of U. S. Waters to Bel
ligerents Is Urged.
The joint State and Navy NeubaMt
Board has submitted to the State Depart
me its report and recommendaesame
concerning submarine warfare off te
A"merican oast It i. understood that
the findings of the board arm unfavorabie
to a continuation by Germany of actvi
ties similar to those off Nantucket I.Agh.
Ahip last Sunday, when the T-43 sank !o4
merchant vessels. It was maid yestsrday
that the"neutrality board declared sa
operations in proximity to Ajnmriaaa
shores constituted a nuisance wh -h
should be abated, and that in that v- -w
the United States should refuse hot-.
tality to all belligerent war vessels.
The board found, it was stated, t-1, I
belligerent operations close to Amertic.
shores were obnoxious, and that .
United States had the right to consic
them as a nuisance. Being a nuisa
"committed at our doors.* it was -
serted, such operations would cot s
within the purview of municipal reguLa
tiona
rged to Notify Mague.
The board is said to have reosm
ed that the State Department notify i.
government of the Netherlands at Tko
Hague of any change in this countr.s
regulations affecting hospitality to b,
ligerent war vessels, In accordanoe w,
convention XnI. Article 27. of The Hague
conventious.
Some authorities were of the opinion
that as the United States merely gave its
adhesion to that convention. the not
fication to The Hague called for Is not of
treaty force. This government. it was
stated. would informally notify the bel
lIgerent's diplomatic representatives in
Washington of any change in this coun
try's regulations relating to belligerent
warships in American waters.
The recommendations of the neutrality
board. it was said. by some experts,
would carry this country's municipal
regulations farther than has ever been
,itempted, and considerably farther than
the twelve-mile limit in the British how.
ering act
B1teNume Point Kemebeg.
Tie extreme pet the 'United Stafte
has gone in this discussion is disclosed
in a note by Secretary of State Hamil
ton Fish to the American Legauton in
Paris on October 4, 17. during the
Fran-o-Prussion war French cruisers
had been standing in the s'oamer anes
off New York and other ATmerican ports.
to the prejudice of Amnerican h-pitng.
Mr. Fish said:
this go-ernment would regard
as an unfriendly act the hovering of
such vessels upon the coast of ti. -nited
States. near to its shores ir th neigh
borhood of its ports. with intent to in
tercept the vessels of trade of its enemy.
President Grant on October 1, f:iowt.g
issued a proclamation conor ng the
abuse of American hospitality oy Frentb
cruisers. saying
anY frequenting and use of the
Iwaters within the territorial jurisdiction
of the 'nited States by the armed
vessess of either belligerent for
the purpose of preparing for hostile
operations or as posts of observation
mnst be regarded as unfriendly
and offensive
might Iuvade High Se.ea
. As the operations of the German sub
marine U-L3 took place some seventy
mile, off the American coast, however,
it was baid by- some persons acquainted
with the board a recommendations that
to put them into effect would necessitate
an invasion of the high seas by the
United State,.
It was said authoritatively yesterday,
that the department. before deciding
upon any policy. will examine all the
evidence.
The Navy Department received yester
day a report from Rear Admira! Knight
- Newport transmittIng the report, of
the commanders of four vessels sunk by
the I.-53.
The Navy Department received also a
report from Admiral Gleaves. command
Ing the destroyer force at sea. express
ing his personal belief that al the sur,
vivors are accountes for and that there
was no steamer Punk named the Kinr
ston or Kingstonian Admiral (,leave
believed the steamer Knudsen was under
stood by the wireless hat: to be the King
ston.
Admiral Gleaves added that the de
stroyer force had discontinued the
search.
SUBMARINE DISCUSSION
BANNED IN REICHSTAG
Berlin (via SarvIlle wireless). (et. 1
The budget committee of the Reichstag.
unable to reach an agreement on the sub
marine question. has voted'34 to 4 against
a discussion of the subject in op ae
sion. This was stated in a written re
port in the Reichstag today by Ma
Ernst Bassermnann. leader of the Nationa~l
Liberals.
The decision of the budget comnmit-tee
not to discuss tiae submarine issus in the
open Rteichstag session is signifloant stnce
this avoids the glneral debate which had
been expected to make Chancellor von
Bethmannm-Hollweg the storm oenter.
'lis much-heralded debate had been
looked for by the chancellor's opponets
to bring about a change of penley in
bve of "reckleem" t-bcat wartkme.
EUSE TO MYING WNZ.
Wes-er Beeretary ef War Dreke
Chiono, Ot. Il-Jacob Dicktan,. km.
mer Seeretary of War, today reached the
bedside or his wife. who is belneved to
be dying. after a record-brekiag run
frcin Memphis. 'lana.. .in wrmch his win
eoal train covered the E~ mses in em
hours and i0 mninutee, low hear. lam,
tha the regular runntng time.
Mrs. Dicinson was take. ill -eddmma
trip. Bltimore and h. T:9 a. um.
amp Oct. 16 Rleturstag em das.
