,rlcal Society' V
ttlBtO!
'1
Tenth Year, Number 21,
LIBERAL, SEWARD COUNTY, KANSAS, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1916
$1.50 Per Year
ft
A SMALL BLAZE
The lire department was called out
Friday afternoon to squelch a small
blaze In one of the buildings back of
(he Citizens State Bank. The shed
was used to do the gasoline washing
and storing for Jackson's dry clean
ing establishment, and it seems that
some boys playing around the build
' ing discovered the gas tank and
thought they would see how the
gasoline would look with a match
applied to it. Accordingly they turned
the faucet in the tank and let the gas
Tun over a piece of burning paper,
with the result that business picked
up hurriedly. No serious damage
was done to the contents' of the
building, but the. building itself was
considerably smoked up before the
.fire wagon got there.
GOOD MEETING FRIDAY NIGHT
I The Chamber of Commerce held Its
regular meeting Friday evening in
the I. O. O. F. hall. The principal
topics for discussion were a couple of
good roads meetings to be held in the
near future and the paving proposi
tion. A committee composed of E. J.
'Thayer, A. L. Eidson, H. A. Oasklll,
iP. A. Craig and the secretary was ap
taAed to circulate a petition among
(the -property owners to secure ez
ipxcsslons from them as to their de
Sires as to paving. October 24' was
set as a date for a good-roads meet
ing at Lorena. It Is planned to take
(the band and some refreshments from
Xiberal and to have a couple of good
road authorities from Oklahoma City
present at the meeting. After the.
meeting Bert Whims, the local boxer,
and A. L. 6liger of Emporia' furn
ished some entertainment in the form
'of a boxing match. A large crowd
waB out to the meeting and all were
(exceedingly Interested both In the
paving and roads proposition.
START A DISTRIBUTING POINT
tfcr HERE
. The Dodge City Wholesale Grocery
Co. has leased Ithe building formerly
occupied y7 W.'E. Wilson On Third
.street, and Is making arrangements
t. use the same as a distributing
"honae for their stock. They will car
ry a complete line of groceries and
provisions and expect to add a cold
'storage and produce department next
spring. Clay Fulton of Hooker, an
experienced grocer, will be manager
'of the Liberal branch, and with his
'hustling abilities should soon have an
'excellent trade, worked up for his
'firm. It always looks like a town's
financial conditions are sound when
the wholesale houses begin locating
in It, and we believe the Dodge City
people look at It In the same way or
they wouldn't start a branch house
In Liberal.
The Presbyterian ladies held their
rummage sale at Wilson's grocery
Saturday and cleared about a hun
dred dollars at the sale. They didn't
get through, however, and will sell
the remainder at the same place to
morrow. The ladies express their
kindness to Mr. Wilson for the use of
the store in which to hold their sale.
This is
Week from
Maine to California
m mam m
TRADC MARK REGISTERED
"The same price the notion over;
1 Styleplus Week from coast to coast, the couqry over! The week when
the lire-wire, hustling merchants are patting Styleplus laits and overcoats in
their store windows for yon to admiret The week when the up-and-doing men
of the nation are buying their new winter clothes Styleplus at the attractive
and easy price $17. . , , ' ,
' -The price $17 for such splendid Btting, splendid wearing clothes has al
ways been remarkable. But right now is an achievement without a parallel.
To be able, in the face of present conditions, to buy suits and overcoats of the
world famous Styleplus quality at the price of $17 is ail opportunity which
every man with an eye to his pocketboek will surety seise. ' '
. All wool or silk-and-wool fabrics in the latest attractive shades and pat
terns. The foundation (canvas and haircloth) is thoroly shrunk in water for
twenty-four hours. Fine substantial linirps. .Hand tailorirg in all the
vital parts. Only silk thread is used throughout.- A corps of famous de
signers fashion the models, Here are clothes of remarkable style and value,
' covered by a guarantee that makes you sure your money's safel Visit the
Styleplus Store today.
1 1)
38 Years Successful Merchandising Has Taught us How tdv em.You Better"
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, V&.jUL., LIBERAL KANSAS,
GENTS' FURNISHINGS AND -lmAiimd M GCYMON, OKLAHOMA,
SHOES " established 1878 DALHART, TEXAS
DISTRICT MEETING OF MASONS
The Masons of Fargo Lodge No.
300 will welcome, a big gathering of
members of the Masonic fraternity la
Liberal Tuesday night at which time
the second annual meeting of Masons
of this district will be held. - Prepara
tions and much drill work have been
the portion of the local members of
the order the past week or two and
a good time is looked forward to by
all. Wednesday morning the visiting
delegations will be given a slghtsee- '
ing trip over Liberal. The program
tor the day Is as as follows:
2 P. M. Opening, Havlland Lodge
No. 409. .
2: IS Exemplification of the Ent
ered Apprentice Degree, Grand View .
T " - XT OTA
8:15 General Questlonare on E.
A. Degree, ...
8:30 Exemplification of the Fel
low Craft Degree. First Section:
Plains Lodge No. 367. Second Sec
tion: Kiowa Lodge No. 293.
4:30 General Questlonare on F.
C. Degree.
5:00 Exemplification of Ballot,
Fargo Lodge No. 3Q0.
5:30 Refreah,m,en,ts.
7:00 Instruction In Reception of
Grand. Officers.
7; 80 Exemplification of Master
Mason's Degree. First Section: Webb
Lodge No, 275. Second Section: Far-
- " 1 a A A A
Z iodge No. auu.
9:00 General QuesttQO&re on inq
master uiaauu b wiwj, .fcw'
9:80 Remarks by Grand Lecturer
and other Grand Officers.
10:30 Closing, Mulliuvllle Lodge
No. 344 ; : -
All work under supervision of W.:.
Stanford M, Smart.
C '" HANCSCK BUYS A BLOCK '
Chas. E. Hancock, home builder
and town booster, has this week
closed a deal for an entire block,
consisting of forty lots, In the San
nyside addition. Charlie will erect
a modern residence for himself on
these lots next spring, and will put
up several more good homes for rent
or sale, on easy terms. This part of
the addition should be called "Han
cock Block" as he is the first one to
buy an entire block at a time. He is
also working on two other residences
in the addition that will be for sale in
the near future. Hancock is one man
who makes all his investments in his
home town and Liberal could use a
few more like him.
The two Delevans will appear for
the first time in the west In a Europe
an novelty vaudeville act, doing hand
balancing and a number of spectacu
lar tricks, one of which required nine
years of patient practice before suf
ficiently mastered to present to the
public. At the Majestic all this
week.
THE RING STORE
Some jewelers cany rings merely because they are iewelry.
we carry them in rich profusion because they are beautiful and
a true adornment. This store is known to many as the Ring
Store because those who are especially interested in this form
of jewelry have found here not only exceptional offerings in
rings, but an intelligent interest to match theirs. If you love
rings, come and see ours. If you- don't, come and see them
and you will love them. All our rings are solid gold, $2 and up. ,
O. J. WILKINS, Jeweler
At Taylor1
Congressman ahouse Here
Makes An Interesting Two Hours' Speech To
Large Crowd Wednesday Evening.
Hon. Jouett Shouse, past, present
and potential congressman from the
big Seventh district of Kansas, spoke
to an overflowing audience at the
court house Wednesday evening. The
meeting had been well advertised and
the people responded In fine shape.
Chairman Romer Introduced Sam
Buckland, a son' of Mr. and Mrs. O. P.
Buckland of Liberal, who is the
Democratic nominee for attorney
general, who made about a five-minutes'
talk,-during' which he intro
duced Mr. Shouse. Mr. Shouse held
the audience . spellbound from . the
very start, and at different times
when he paused for breath' or to al
low his words to sink in you could
have heard a pin drop in any part of
the house. His Speech was not the
usual flamboyant political oratory.' It
was; a masterful .presentation of ac
complishments , ot ,, the,. Democratic
administration.. After a review of
the legislation enacted and a careful
explanation of the workings of the
recent rural credits law, he took up
the arguments of the opposition and
punctured It full of holes, severely ex
coriating Mr. Hughes for withholding
suggestions on pending legislation
since he became a candidate and then
denouncing and finding fault with the
bills after they were passed. He
showed where over two-thirds of the
Republican members In both houses
of congress supported and voted for
nearly every bill that has come un
der the displeasure of Mr. Hughes
and his party leaders, but against
whom nothing is said by Mr. Hughes
or other prominent members of the
party. Mr. Shouse is not an orator
that creates applause every time he
states a fact, but we noticed the few
times he was cheered It came spon
taneously from all parts of the house
and members of every party repre
sented In the audience.
Mr. Shouse stopped off at Kismet
and made a speech there In the after
noon to over a hundred people, which
Is a pretty good crowd for a town
of that site. A number of the local
Democrats attended the Kismet meet
ing and brought Mr. and Mrs. Shouse
to Liberal that evening.
Congressman Shouse has the mak
ing of a broad-minded statesman it
he Is allowed to remain In congress
a while. He Indulges in no "cheap
John" denunciations of his opponent
nor the opposition party, but is mak
ing his race for re-election solely on
his own merits and the record of ac
complishments made by the admin
istration of which he was a member.
The people of the Seventh district
will not make the mistake of dispens
ing with the services of a tried and
true servant for one who has no plat
form except a conjectural mass of
promises that would be mighty hard
to keep in case he should be elected.
Mr. and Mrs. C H. Betty and Mr.
and Mrs. Ira Hlckox, all of Hooker,
were here on business a few hours
Friday. ' '
JtEGISTER AT TAYLOR'S 2??
The registration books of the city "
of Liberal will be kept at Taylor's
Drug Store for ten days prior to the
election, November 7. This is done
to accommodate those who And It dif-Attlt-or-4m
possible to- climb" tlw ;
stairs in the Miller' building, where
the city clerk's office is located, and
will also be a convenience to others
who have not registered up to that
time. If you live or vote in the city
you must register before election day
if you Intend to vote, and the sooner
you do so the less liable you are to
forget the same. , '
INSPECT YOUR FLUES .
Every chimney and flue In the city
of Liberal should be inspected care
fully before fires are started this fall.
Defective flues caused 265 fires In
Kansas last year, aggregating a loss
of a quarter of a million dollars in
property. Still more property was
destroyed by the spreading of fires
already started by these detective
flues and other original causes.
Do a little missionary work. A Are
in your neighbor's house may destroy
your houBe as well as his own. You
will be abundantly rewarded In the
added safety to your home and busi
ness.
LIBERAL K1RE DEPARTMENT, .
E. G. KINDSCHI, ChiefJ
Can We Help?
What gives an insti
tution a right to live in
a community?
It's the service it
gives.
We are willing to do
our part
First National Bank
LIBERAL, KANSAS
Member of The Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, and
operating under U. S. Government supervision and control.
