THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post
office at Ronan, Montana, under the Act of March 3, 1579.
VOL. VII. NO. 24. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, OCTOBER 13, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
FARMERS ADVISED
TO HOLD WHEAT
"Don't sell your good seed wheat
yet," is the suggestion of Director F.
S. Cooley of the State college agricul
tural extension service in a statement
which he has just handed out, addressed
to the farmers of Montana. Mr. Coo
ley says:
"The farmers' need of money to
meet expenses and obligations matur
ing at this season is generally met by
selling a few hundred bushels of grain
as soon as practicable after harvest.
This practice is sound and in keeping
with good farm marketing policy.
Whether a part of the crop shall be
held for the normal increase in price of
May wheat as compared with the De
cember price depends upon many con
siderations. Among these are the
facilities at the farmer's command for
storage and shipment.
"This season has brought a very re
markable market situation: the rules
may not work out with the present
wheat crop. The price at harvest time
is little short of astounding. We did
not anticipate it nine months ago. The
United States has not enough wheat
for the domestic bread supply and for
next season's crop. We have not
enough for home consumption.
'The Canadian government report
places their crop at 200,000,000 bushels
less than the 1915. In fact Canada has
scarcely half a crop. American millers
have small prospect of buying largely
in Canada to cover home shortage. It
would not be surprising in the least to
hear that England has commandeered
every bushel of surplus wheat that
Canada can spare. Foreign orders
taken months ago for American wheat
are being filled. European buyers are
actively placing contracts, even at the
present prices, which indicates anxiety
for the year's supply. America is li
able to oversell its wheat stock. That
would send prices skyrocketing and
menace the seed supply.
"J wish that Montana farmers had
the kind of seed needed-enough for
their use and to sayre. I believe they
would make money by holding some of
the right stuff. There is no part of
grain raising more likely to pay divi
dends than the production of first-class
seed. Selected strain of clean wheat
of superior quality, raised on well pre
pared land, a little work pulling out
weeds and off-type stuff, is worth
much more than the grain market. It
is becoming increasingly rare. Great
pissibilities are in store for Montana
farmers in seed grain when they wake
up and pull together and play the game
right.
" With the American wheat crop less
than enough to feed the American peo
ple and furnish seed for next year,
with no wheat to spare in Canada, with
foreign shippers not only taking wheat
contracted months ago but actively
buying more at present high prices,
even if we could get wheat abroad we
s'iould have to add high ocean freight
charges to the Liverpool price. There
is little prospect of getting in outside
wheat.
*"We may well wonder what the mar
ket will be next spring. The tempta
tion to take money now while the tak
ing is good is very strong. The Ameri
can wheat situation doesn't look like
low prices for a good while. A few
hundred bushels of good wheat in the
bin nmay beat money in the bank. The
situation merits the study of every
man who has wheat to sell."
THREE ARE IMPLICATED
1N A. C. THOMAS MURDER
At the close of a three days session
the coroner's jury looking into the
murder of A. C. Thomas at Thompson
Falls, brought n a verdict holding
three people responsible for' the dast
ardly crime. Edith Colby is held as
the principle. while A. S. Ainsworth,
a lawyer of that place, and J. Menire,
editor of the Independent Enterprise,
are named as conspirators, or accom
plices, or both.
Ainsworth is one of the owners of
the Independent Enterprise and Menire
and Miss Colby were employed by him
in the office. Testimony introduced at
the hearing tended to show that both!
Ainsworth and Menire had knowledge
of Miss Colby's intention to assault
Thomas, and that they had in fact en
couraged her to do so; but not, prob
ably to the extent of killing.
The murder of Thomas is undoubted
ly the outcome of a political war in
Sanders county. Ainsworth, Dr. Peek,
Banker Barto and a few (others were
dissatisfied with the controlling faction
of the republican party in that county
and established the Independent Enter
prise to aid in the defeat of their can
didates at the primary election, the
paper making many attacks on the can
didates of the faction supported by
Thomas. The Thomas faction won out
at the primary, however, and since
that time the Independent Enterprise
and its owners have continued the fight
and thrown their support to the demo
crats. Thomas was chosen chairman
of the republican county central com
mittee and as such was managing the
republican campaign. In this way he
was brought into the fight and made
the victim of the wrath of those op
posed to the faction of the party to
which he belonged.
Preliminary hearings of those held
responsible for the murder will be held
next week.
Statement of Receipts and
Expenditures School
Diitrict 28.
RECEIPTS.
Balance on hand Aug. 31, 1916 $ 6184.39
Rec'd. from December appor
tionment...................... 13437.50
Received from March appor
tionment ...................... 6850.00
Received from special tax...... 14342.43
"6 " bond issue...... 28416.71
Recd. from county high school 3889.74
Received from U. S. Govern
ment a-c Indians............ 439.09
Total .................$74.180.29
EXPENDITURES.
Salaries of teachers............... $23202.75
" " superintendent..... 2100.00
" janitors ......... 1781.36
- drivers .................... 7497.65
Fuel, light and water............ 1470.08
General repairs to buildings... 624.80
General Supplies.................. 6822 16
Rent of school buildings........ 2315.00
Miscellaneous expenses.......... 329.10
Election expense................. 85.00
Wagon equipment................ 456.52
Building equipment... .......... 556.35
Clerks expense (census, ef
amination, freight, as
sistance, etc.)............ 378.04
Trustees expense.................. 111.00
Library................. .............. 185.25
Improving sites.................... 1859.40
New buildings....................... 15974.41
Interest on bonds.................. 750.00
Total.................. $66498.87
Balance on hand Aug.31, 1916 $7681.42
Amounton hand, General fund 6979.52
Interest and sinking fund..... 701.90
Total.......... $7681.42
I certify that the foregoing is correct.
S. R. LOGAN, Clerk.
Correct. J. W. BUFORD. Auditor.
THIS SECTION CONTRIBUTES
TO AGRICULTURAL DISPLAY
Wild ducks have just been added to
the immense permanent agricultural
exhibit of the Northern Pacific railway
in St. Paul, thus completing what has
been called the greatest display of its
kind in America. Over 1,400 seperate
specimens of Northwest products are
on exhibition.
According to General Immigration
Agent L. J. Bricker, nearly every
county along this line from the Great
Lakes to Puget Sound is represented.
The articles to be found there include
all varieties of grains grown in North
ern Pacific territory, large sized pota
toes, some weighing more than five
pounds, as well as flowers and differ
ent species of fish and fruits.
It is declared that many of these ar
ticles were gathered from among en
thusiastic producers in this immediate
section.
The walls of the exhibit room are
adorned with painted scenic views
along the line of the Northern Pacific.
On to St. Paul
The remarkable exhibit shown at the
Western Montana Fair by Indians
from the Flathead reservation will be
taken to St. Paul for display by the
Northern Pacific Railway company.
Immigration Agent Bricker of the rail
road has asked Karl Knudsen,
the government farmer and collector of
the exhibit, for permission te show it
in the east.
With the farm products will go the
beautiful collection of reservation pic
tures which was a feature of the booth
at the fair grounds.
The exhibit attracted much attention.
It reflects great credit upon the Indi
ans themselves and upon Superint^n
dent Morgan and Mr. Knudsen, who
have directed the education of the gov
ernment's wards in farming. -Missou
lian.
GERMAN SUBS
VISIT AMERICA
A German submarine visited New
York last Saturday for a few hours,
leaving port. without taking on sup
plies of any kind. All that the com
mander announced as his mission was
to mail a letter to the German ambas
sador and pay his respect to members
of the American navy.
On Sunday, only a few hours after
the submarine left port, seven ships
doing service for the allies were sunk
off Nantucket. The crews and passen
gers of all ships are reported saved,
but the ships and cargos are lost.
Credit for the destruction of these
ships is given to the German sub
marine and shipping from ports along
the Atlantic seaboard is practically at
a standstill.
That this country may become en
tangled in the European war as a re
sult ofthe visit to an American port
} German submarine and the sink
ing of several allied ships just outside
the three mile limit, is hardly thought
probable. The following Washington
dispatch covers this question:
Washington, Oct. 10-President Wil
son and Secretary Lansing held a con
ference here which lasted well into the
night to consider the submarine ques
tion.
It was indicated by officials today
that facts so far collected through gov
ernmental agencies have disclosed no
grounds for drastic action by the Unit
ed States government because of the
attacks themselves. No evidence has
been found that international law was
violated by the German submarine or
submarines. It was understood, how
ever, that the president and secretary
discussed the wisdom of pointing out to
Germany the inadvisability of operat
ing her submarines in close proximity 1
to the territorial waters of the United
States.
The announcement of Counsellor Polk
in Washington today that the United
States will refuse to accept the con
tention of the entente allies that neu
trals should deny the use of their har- C
bore to all submarines, preceded the r
arrival of Secretary Lansing here. The r
president and secretary went over this
point in connection with the discussion
of the entire issue.
The arrival of James W. Gerard,
American ambassador to Germany, in
New York shortly before Mr. Lansing
left that city for Shadow Lawn, added
interest to the meeting between the
president and Mr. Lansing because of
the fact that the secretary saw Mr.
Gerard at luncheon in New York.
IIMr. Gerard declined either to affirm or
deny published reports that he was re
turning to the United States on a
peace mission on the behalf of the em
peror of Germany.
Mr. Gerard's attention was called to
a story which appeared this morning in
the New York World to the effect that
his errand was to inform the adminis
tration that a renewal of submarine
activity is being considered by Germa
ny in a manner which might threaten
German-American relations. Mr. Ger
ard, after quickly glancing through the
story, said:
"You don't see me quoted anywhere
in it, do you?"
To questions put to the ambassadors
by reporters who met him at quaran
tine he replied:
"It is useless to question me, boys: I
cannot say a word."
"The length of my stay here is not
yet determined, neither have I made
any plans," he said "I expect to go
to Washington, but when, I do not
know. I am glad to be home, though."
Pert Personals.
Uncle Andy may die poor, but Uncle
John D. has given up hopelessly.-St.
Louis Globe-Democrat.
Kipling at fifty reminds us of the
early age at which he reached the
maturity of his powers.-Boston Her
ald.
Wouldn't it be a joke on everybody
concerned if England should some day
send Baron Astor over here as ambas
sador?-Cleveland Plain Dealer.
P. L. Jaquette, his son, C. N.
Jaquette, wife and son, and Mrs.
Walter Jaquette and four chil
dren, all of Kalispell, drove
down last Saturday to visit Mrs.
Jennie Cox and family. The
former is Mrs. Cox's father and
the others are her brother and
two sisters-in-law. The party
returned to Kalispell Sunday.
AUTO POLO GAMES
OCTOBER 2021122
Ray Lampkin, captain and premier
pilot of the auto polo teams, represent
ing Great Britain in the 1916 champion
ship match waging between America
and England, will play in Missoula on
October 20, 21 and 22.
Ray Lampkin is too well known to
sporting circles to need a lengthy in
troduction. Born at Essex, England in
1892, he entered into mechanical work
at an early age, serving in the British
navy, where he soon became an expert
gunner. As the result of meritorious
achievement, he was presented on his
eighteenth birthday with two handsome
gold medals from high officials of the
British Marines, for his superior mark
smanship. Happening to be in London
at the time of the organization of the
two teams at Liverpool, he sought out
Mr. R. A. Hankinson, originator and
manager of the teams, and asked that
he might be allowed the priviledge of
participating in a trial exhibition 6f
Auto Polo then open to applicants for
the honor of representing Great Britian
with the end in view of applying him
self to the task of gaining sufficient
skill to enable him to secure the ap
pointment then open as driver and cap
bain of the English team. So, dexteri
)usly did he handle his cars, that Mr.
3ankinson, recognized great merit, ac
!epted his appointment at the instance
ºf the Board of Internatioual Poloists,
mnd since that day, new chapters have
)een added to the history of modern
md daring achievements, for Captain
lay Lampkin has been received and
ecognized by all the world as the most
killful and daring exponent of death
ourting sport, as offered in Auto Polo,
hat the world has ever known.
Like his mallet-man, Claypool, he is
mnder reserve to the British govern
rent to whom he is compelled to make
veekly reports by cable as to his move
nents in this country, and it was only
hrough the untiring efforts of his man
ger, R. A. Hankinson, that he was
ranted another two-year's extension
f time in which to complete the Inter
ational Series of Auto Polo games
ow being waged in this country.
ALCOHOL TO REPLACE
GASOLINE AS FUEL
The underlying fear that pro
duction of gasoline may not con
tinue to increase to meet the
steadily increasing demand ren
ders of special interest the state
ment of a prominent Boston
chemist that some time alcohol
will compete with gasoline as an
automobile fuel. The compara
tively limited supply of gasoline
and the ever-increasing number
of automobiles, tractors, and
motor boats points to an increase
in price of this important fuel in
the course of time, says the Bos
ton News Bureau.
Alcohol is commonly made
from molasses or corn, by pro
cesses of fermentation and dis
tillation, and is fundamentally
expensive because of the high
cost of these raw materials. A
new prospect for alcohol is based
upon the development of a rel
atively cheap process whereby
grain alcohol, not wood alchol,
is produced from sawdust, corn
stalks, and even wheat straw,
by a treatment with sulphuric
acid and subsequent manufac
ture by the usual processes. A
great saving in cost of production
is made by substitution of saw
dust as a raw material, the ex
pense of distilling being about
the same by both old and new
methods.
School Notes.
Probably many of the people
of Ronan do not know that in
planning the new school house,.
a room was provided for a public:
library. This room, one of the,
pleasantest in the building will
be the headquarters of the Ronan
branch of the county library
which was voted by the county
commissioners, and which will
be supported by a special tax.
Shelving has been provided in
the library room for more than a
thousand volumes, and it is hop
ed that some means will be found
to equip it with a library table,
comfortable chairs and lamps.
The room was calsomined before
the shelving was put up, the
teachers assuming the burden of
raising the funds for the decora
tion, and it is hoped that it can
be paid off with the proceeds of
the dance Saturday night.
On account of the delay by the
heating contractor the dance an
nounced for the new school house
had to be postponed and will now
be given on Saturday evening,
October 14. There will be music
by a four piece orchestra. For
those who do not care for danc
ing cards will be provided and
of course supper will be served.
This is probably the only affair
of the kind that will ever be held
in the new building, for the seats
will be put nown Monday next
week.
We know everyone wants an
opportunity to inspect and en
joy the new building for them
selves The receipts will be used
to pay for decorating the library
andthe assembly room.
A zinc top cabinet consisting
of three double gas burners and
a cupboard in three sections is
being installed in the domestic
science labortory.
Tribal Money Coming
According to a letter received recent
ly by Joseph Grenier of St. Ignatius
from Assistant Commissioner E. B.
Merrit, about $253,000 of tribal funds
accumulated at Washington will be
distributed pro-rata among 2,310 Indi
ans of the Flathead reservation. Mr.
Grenier and other Indians who have re
ceived their patents in fee petitioned
the commissioner for a distribution of
the funds and the letter above referred
to was in answer to the petition. It the
answer the assistant commissioner says:
"If the Indians on your reservation
will make application through the sup
erintendent's office on proper blanks
furnished by him, the same will receive
due consideration when submitted to
this office with the superintendent's
report and recommendation in each
case."
_________________________2
GREAT BIG POTATOES
SCARCE THIS SEASON
With a small supply of great big po
tatoes in prospect as a result of the
mediocre crop this year the superin
tendent of the Northern Pacific dining
car departwent is casting about for
this food in sufficient quantities to serve
patrons until another season produces
more bountifully. His prestige as the
discoverer of the '"great big baked po
tatoe" is at stake, he says:
A search of the Northwest for tubeis
each to weigh one and a half pounds or
more, will be made. Any who have
this vegetable in sizes required by the
Northern Pacific standard should write
him. He expects to contract for large
quantities during the next few weeks.
Mrs. Chas. M. Dorsett of Ra
valli entertained a number of
Ronan and Ravalli ladies at pro
gressive whist at her nome last
Wednesday afternoon. Delight
ful refreshments were served
after the game was over and the
winners announced. Those from
Ronan in attendance were Mes
dames C. F. Rathbone, J. B.
Bear, A.. J. Brower, W. S. Hol
lingsworth, J. D. Warner, L. M.
Farnham and Henry Worden.
Missoula county democrats will
open their campaign on Satur
day night of this week at Mis
soula. Meetings will be held in
every precinct in the county.
The republicans are one week
ahead of them, having started
on their tour on Monday of this
week.
CONGRESSMAN
"GETS' IN BAD"
A spirited newspaper controversy is
raging in Miles City as a result of
some remarks made by Congressman
Evans in an address there Friday even
ing, the result of which is not likely to
add to the vote in that section for the
Missoula man who is a candidate for
re-election.
According to the Miles City Star the
congressman likened the uniform of
the United States army to the hide of
a skunk and the man inside the uni
form to the animal that wears the
stripe on its back, a comparison that
is expressive of the most supreme con
tempt. The Journal has come to the
defense of Mr. Evans, contending that
he did not refer to the soldiers but to
the officers, to which the Star retorts
that the speaker in language that was
perfectly plain deliberately insulted
the defenders.of the flag.
It is difficult to understand the men
tal process of any man, particularly a
man occupying such a high position as
representative at Washington, who
would make such a remark concerning
the military uniform of his country and
the men who wear it, but it is certain
at least that such a gratuitous slur de
serves decisive rebuke at the hands of
all citizens who place patriotism above
partisanship.
Such an insult is not to the regulars
alone, but to all those who wear or
have worn military uniform in the ser
vice of their country-to the Grand
Army veterans, the Spanish American
war veterans, and to the members of
the national guard who are now doing
duty along the Mexican border. Mr.
Evans apparently showed his colors
and they do not resemble the red, white
and blue.-Billings Gazette.
OPENING Fl. ASSINNIBOINE
MILITARY RESEREATION
The President has signed a proclama
tion opening to homestead entry the
agricultural and coal lands in the
Abandoned Fort Assinniboine military
reservation, Montana. This reserva
tion is situated in Hill county, in the
northern part of the State of Montana.
and was one of the largest military res
ervations in the United States. The
lands are located near the city of Havre
and the Great Northern railroad runs
across the northern portion of the re
servation. There are 95,786.49 acres
to be opened, of which 93,605.63 acres
were classified as agricultural land and
2,180.86 acres were classified as coal
lands. In the case of coal lands, only
the surface rights are to be disposed
of. Persons entitled to make home
stead entry for these lands will be al
lowed to file their homestead applica
tions at the district land office at Havre
Montana, between 9 o'clock a. m.,
October 25, and noon, November 15.
Where there are no conflicts the appli
cations will be allowed at the close of
said period. In case of conflicting ap
plications, the successful applicant will
be declared by a drawing to be held at
Havre, Montana, on November 18, 1916.
The price of these lands is $2.50 per
acre for lands entered during the first
six months after the opening of the
lands, and $1.25 per acre for lands en
tered after said period. Applicants for
these lands during the six months peri
od mentioned will be required to deposit
with their applications 50 cents per
acre for the area applied for and in ad
dition thereto the regular land office
fee and commissions. During the six
months following the opening of the
lands entries are limited in area to 160
acres, after which time the enlarged
homestead act allowing the entry of
320 acres will apply to lands designated
in accordance with the provisions of
said act.
Round Butte Items..
The Ladies Aid of Round Butte
will meet with Mrs. J. S. Myers
Wednesday, October 18th. All
the members should be on hand
as this is the election of officers
for another year.
The Round Butte Sunday
School will have rally day exer
cises on Sunday, October 22nd.
All are welcome.
Anyone having fat hogs for sale, see
E. E. Durst. 22-
