CELINA
THE RESERVOIR CITY THE
BIGGEST LITTLE TOWN ON
EARTH-VERSE.
THE HUB OF THE UNI-
THE
IT IT
NA-DEMOCRA
JUtabliirtd Mr . 1193.
In tared i th Ciin to. pf-offie iMtid-tliti ! ontttat.
Volume 21, Number 27
Carlin & Carlin, Publisher
Celina, Ohio, October 13, 1916
ONE PAPER
In tha HOME la worth dosen In
the byway, and Juat remember THE
DEMOCRAT la tha homa papar af
Marcar County. a a a
NOTED
Cleveland Paper Reviews Dem
ocratlc Tour of County
Cox, Bandies, Cocke, Welly and
Holl Make Welkin Rlng-WU-on
Sentiment Strong.
ly A. K. McKee, Staff fliieelal Corres
pondent fur Cleveland l'luin Dealerl
(Yllna, Oct. 9. Choose between Wilson
mid peace ,or Hughes and War.
TIiIh was the message given Mercer
county votora today by former 3ov. James
M. Cox and the group of speakers who
toured the county with him.
Tha tour of the county was marked by
large audiences. There was a generous
measure of attention and enthusiasm.
On of the big features of the day was
the speeches delivered by former Con
gressman Goeke of Wupakoneta, who long
has been a leader among the German
population of, the county.
Heading with German voters not to
lose sight of the great Issues of the
campaign, ho denied that the thoughtful
and prud.-nt Cierman voters of Mercer and . The people are expected to pay for the
Auglaize counties would ever make the Thonm8 m UltJ re(.,.nt penitentiary prolw.
IT 18 TO LAUGH
Another very severe test of partisan
ship confronts a good Republican when he
tries not to laugh at the efforts of the
charming feminine exponents of the most
exclusive New York society, now aboard
the Iluijhes women's special ,to rally their
western ulsters from the cradles and Die
washtubs and inform them how to vote
for the best Interests of the masses.
Ohio State Journal.
MERCER COUNTY C. E. NOTES
The Montezuma U. B. Society held a
fine meeting last Sunday evening under
the leadership of Mlsa Helen Cooke. An
excellent program, consisting of short
talks, special muslo and recitations was
given, followed by a splendid sermon by
their pastor. Rev. J. P. Hlght.
The C. B. Society of Celinu Presbyter-
Ian church with Luona Winter leader, ob
served Rally Day last Sunday evening, us
ing the following program furnished by
the Presbyterian Hoard of Publican and
Sabbath School work:
Theme I must be about my Father s
Musliiess." Luke 2:4!).
Hymn Selected.
Hrlef Prayer.
Scripture reading Fhlllppluns 4:1-9:
Romans 8:38-39.
Presentation of Theme.
Hymn Selected.
Society Standard General program of
work for the Society presented by the
president.
special Music.
"Our Alms" Committee chairman (3 to
minutes talk).
Hrlef Address by Pastor "Tho Young
eople's Society helping the Church."
Sentence Prayers.
Hymn.
Benediction.
FORD
Backs Wilson As Loader of
Real Progressives
(
Domestic and Foreign Policies
Are Commended In a Signed
Letter to the Public.
blunder of voting for Justice Hughes,
whose chief backer and adviser Is Theo
dore Roosevelt, whose ambition, he said
seemed to be to embroil the country In a
great war,
His pictures of Wilson seeking with pa
tlence and persistence to enforce Amerl
can rights of the seas and winning from
Germany full recognition, aroused ap
plause.
He said that to shift now and chnnge
words for deeds aa Mr. Hughes spoke,
would be to substitute for the wisdom and
tha words of Wilson, the demands and the
war talk of Roosevelt, a change certain
to plunge the country Into war.
It was Mr. Qoeke's first speeches In the
campaign and his old followers In the
county loudly cheered his utterances.
A. P. Sandles, who was with the party,
made a hit with his agricultural political
philosophy. The audience at Chattanoo-
ga had erected two towering hickory flag
poles for 'the meeting and Sandles dilated
on the act as typical Democracy, consist
ent to the end with the Ideas of Jackson,
Goeke used the U-boat action of yes
terday In praise of President Wilson and
his policy, pointing out how the U-63, af
ter stopping an American liner and And
Ing It loaded with war munitions, bade it
go ahead. I
This, said Goeke, showed how Germany
recognized the fairness of the government
and the correctness of Its position.
Much of the tour was made In the rain.
With Gov. Cox was Ben F. Welty, candi
date for congress. Sandles, George W,
Holl, candidate for senate, and Goeke.
Judge Dennis Dwyer, of Dayton, 86,
drove with Got. Cox from Dayton this
morning in his auto and spent part of the
day with him.
"Thou shall not bear false witness
against thy neighbor," was the theme
Gov. Cox employed In discussing state is
sues, using "the little red book" of two
years ago for reference. That book, is
sued in behalf of Gov. Willis, said all
state departments would be put back In
the state house If Willis won.
Cox showed how Willis had recently
bought a skyscraper In which to house
departments he could not put in the
state house. He said the Willis admlnls
tratlon was the most expensive the state
ever had despite all claims of great econ
omy to the contrary.
He paid mucn attention
The hill for stenographer's fees alone was
$703. SI). Oh. lxird, how long!
New York .Oct. 8. Henry Ford, who
took luncheon with President Wilson at
Shadow Ijine today, gave out the follow
ing signed statement upon his return to
New Yory tonight:
"1 believe that President Wilson has
solidified the Independent vote of tha
country In his support as a result of the
remarkable speech which ho delivered on
Saturday. It was a trenchant rallying
Cry to the men of conscience who are go
ing to put aside party ties and vote their
own convictions on election day. The na
tion will be surpilsed by the numbers of
these independents. I am convinced that
the November election will witness an up
setting of party lines unprecedented in
the history of American politics. I was
born a republican, you know, and voted
the Republican ticket for many years, but
I shall vote for Mr. Wilson In November.
"I have talked with many other repub
licans who have resolved to do likewise.
Mr. Wilson is assured of the undivided
1
PENSIONS FOR WIDOWS
A Democratic Congress and President
enacted a law which gives recognition
and pension to soldier's widows, that was
long ago their due. An Ohio Congress
man, Ashbrook, was the father of this
Just law. He Is a Democrat. The stand
nut il. o. P. Prlesls. for forty years tried
and did make, Civil War soldiers Is-Ucve
lli.it they would lose their pension If Dem
oerats came Into newer. Democracy not
only cares for him who bore tiie brunt of
hat tie. hut for his widow as well Ottawa
Sentinel.
Hut the women didn't have a vote.
TEXT
I.. E. Hurner. a Mercer County boy with
the Overland people at Toledo, was called
here la st week on a case before the grand
Jury. He likes the city and has a profit
able position.
Kay Jenkins, of Marlon, Ohio, a former
well Known .Mercer county ooy, and a son
of Win. Jenkins of this city, was In this
city last week for a brief visit. He Is
with the Marlon Steam Shovel Co., of
Marlon, as an erector of their machines,
lie Just returned from Florida, where he
had been looking after some work for his
employers. He reports tt good deal of
dredge work under way in that state. In
volving some big contracts.
J. (1. Ilattelle. Chairman of the Republl
can Finance Committee In Ohio, and chief
of "after-the-war" calamity howlers, has
Just incorporated a $2,000,0110 company at
Portsmouth. iHn t he the sly old fox?
Willi German submarines approaching
the three mile limit of the I 'lilted States
to do battle with their enemies how long
would the t'nlted States keep out of war
if Root were Secretary or Slate and Roo
sevelt Secretary of WarT
Abolish the saloon nnd fil llho schools;
abolish the saloon and tear down the In
sane osylums and prisons; abolish the sa
lon nd do away with the electric ohalr;
abolish the saloon and cease breeding a
race of degenerates; abolish tho saloon
and give the young man a chance. Ohio
Penitentiary News.
ft- - I
. w n a, I
.B1I
TH1SISTHE HOUSE THE DEFICIT" BOUGHT
O il S O D
Opto
0.M.QC.
5.', a,
$1000
trr).
t9
nHrs-1 Rtr.r
"Them ARI 1ms uno fMr fAiP eoR
141 S IS Te JACK IhAT lwe9
That raise "m8 fun 1mat fa
TH MOUS8 VeFICI VOVCMV
4k
cam- l-fj
1 t . Vt
A-
t1t t TY6 cow wiTm Twe CRufruEB,
moKm VaT TbiStp mO JACtt "That
riewOjO) Tk8 C041M TmaT Aii -ImC
fuuOS maT PAi foft TwS House
Te spict oeocxt
TmS S Tm6 mAiiXm now fare LOlr4 That mu,kP
TmC CO) vmiTh Th CiToMfiSO hOKh That TeSSEO
fKe JACK tMAT T COM "fcAT ftAtSe Tm
fHOS tHAT fAkOOR Th HOUSC Tr" CiOT" touCMT-
jt'ivss T, ruc au awiws!
AN iHOKM "MAT i WAtLOwe
1M SooK Au. "&,TTS MW
ton. That soffoKfeo "Th
MAtoeX NOV fOKuMtM HAT
Muo "1st Com. vsTh Tmsj
cnuwie iw Tmat toasa
TC jack -That ruwto "T
cmm That niAiseo Te ruMoj
?Mn PaiO Fo ThB ttua Tm
"frllS IS Yh SOOt Alt lATHklte
, AO T5k?4 PUT OUT T Te
MINN all Fo?toaM That Mukbo
, Th cow vmiTh Tm CKuMPiefr MM
.That ToSSto Twe jack That ,
i Plowcs Thc Corn That raiseo
' Th HM04 That PaiO For -&e3
House TH6oePiciT IjoucmT-
N ViTi
DEFICIT' 6OU0HT!
Of Speech DeliAered by Forme
Governor James H. Cox
In the Dlacusalon of Admlnlalra
tlon Affairs With Governor
Frank B. WI1IU.
WreUnd la tho Cataabua Uspatoh.
on
Of Democratic County Cam-
paign Was Hummer
to national
questions and made a strong appeal for Tour of Towns and Enthusiasm
J'resment Wilson wno loves peace more
Displayed Angara Well for
Old-Time Majorities.
The opening of the Democratic com-
polltlcal stumpers has ever been equaled
'S8. The party Included former
than he loves war.
Former Congressman Goeke spoke at
each meeting and told the people who of
ten elected him to congress that It was
Wilson and peace or Hughes and War
that was now before them for choice.
the fatherland he said his first loyaity Is P'l?n the county last Monday was the
to the Stars and Stripes and the land of mOKt successful for many years, and the
He asked Democrats to give the old- enthusiasm at every stop made by the
time majority for Wilson, Pomerene and
Cox.
Sandles talked agriculture politics to anCe
the farmers todav. He said the three
horse team had supplanted the two horse Governor Cox; Hon. A. P, Sandles, of Ot-
team on all successful farms. They could ,.,. ,.,, n ,i ,i
plow deener and better and cet larcer re- tawa; B. F. Welty, Democratic nominee
mlts. ...... . . . for Congress; former Congressman J. H.
- ne wmiieu liio uif ee-in.rno icuin aynu i
to politics. He wanted Wilson for presi- Goeke, of Wapakoneta; Hon. B. M. Clen
,.... rM...nn . ... n n rl n ,.!.,. I
congress in the . fedeml team He wanted Denning, member of the State Liquor LI-
Cox for governor, Holl for senator and cense Commission, of Columbus; Judge
Huber for representative In the state.
Sandles criticized Roosevelt for his war Dennis Dwyer, of Dayton; members of the
onirePrid4!'1 county executive committee, candidates
approval of Wilson's peace policy and his an(j the Celina band. Big crowds were
persisieiu eiioris iu avuiu war. i
He decried war and urged a voto for met at every point. The first stop was
WA?Chattanooira a Republican announc- at Chickasaw, where Mayor Rucker In
ed he would vote for Wilson and Cox and troduced the speakers, and a good sized
maae a snort speecn praising v;ox anu
compulsory workmen's compensation.
crodw stood during a drenching rain to
Tonieht the Opera House here could not ., . j ,-.
hnM tho a r:,. pt nnlt in "sien io uovenior oa. ana ongressiiiaii
nralse of James G. Johnson and M. H.
Donahue, Democratic candidates for the
supreme court. '
rie saia iney were in sirong conirnsi to ,.,pr Hn.i rinvfirnor Pm conrlntlpd
the two Republican candidates, both of autaKers ttnu- as governor cox concludea
Goeke. At St. Henry tha school children
turned out In a body to see and hear the
whom were reactionary,
Meetings also were held today in Chick
asaiv, St. Henry, Coldwater, Fort Recov
his speech, with loud praise of President
WILson and his peace policies ,the child
ery, Chattanooga and Rockford. Got. Cox reninder the direction of Superintendent
W1" m penance county tomorrow. Bernard, Principal Schrage and the other
AIM1II1III ItAIIIIT If ITTrnri teachers, sang together 'America For Me.'
CRImINAL COURT MATTERS Aj "en:y .the. r k.eriT.t '"tro.d"c;
eu vy A ' l . tj . a. ovuiinvn, yicoiucui u, 1.11 v.
Board of Education. The party took din-
Prlsonera Indicted by the October grand ner at the jenklns hotel at Coldwater, and
Jury last week were arraigned before while a couple of the speakers were eat-
Common Pleaa Judge Miller last Tuesday 'ng, the others discussed the Issues at a
morning. meeting wnicn pacaea tne ttex motion
Nellie Long, Indicted on a charge of Picture tneatre. Tne meeting was pre-
fornlcatlon, plead not guilty and was re- 'ded over by Mayor Franks.
leased under $S00 bond. At Ft. Recovery Mayor Passman Intro-
Shelby Dieeel. her consort, indicted on duced the speakers. At Chattanooga the
a charge 'of adultery, plead not guilty and Muerty township and the Willshire bands
was released under $300 bond. Diegel's joinea tne music making, were tne crowa
case waa assigned for hearing on Monday was very enthusiastic. Two large hickory
October 18. - poies surmounted wltn tne American nag,
Rufus Wagner, indicted for non-support wen. ri,tied at the noith and south ends
ulaad guilty and was sentenced to the of tne little hamlet when the first of the
Ohio Penitentiary for an Indeterminate speakers arrived at four o'clock. The
period. Sentence was suspended on con- crowd stayed the meeting through loudly
dltlon that he supDort his childre and he ..,. r. .,... u. .
was released under $300 bond. " -'- " vnoymi-
Marshall l.owery. indlctea ror aousing " u eoien.
an officer, plead not guilty and was re- Supper was taken at the Crook hotel at
leased under $200 bond.. Rockford. Here the blire-est rtmf,ntr.
15. Bruce yingling indicted for rape, will
tie arraigned today.
VICTIM OF KUfJTiG SEASON
tlon of the day was accorded the party.
Tho Rockford orchestia furnished music
at the hotel during I ho supper, while the
Rockford and the Willshire bands assist
ed the Celina boya In making the welkin
1 Erest Smith, an eighteen-year-old lad ring. The meeut.g ther was presided ov-
of Hopewll township, had his left arm er by Mayor Christian. While oGvernor
badly mangled by the accidental discharge Cox was ppeal.lng in the opera house,
of a shot-gun last Tuesday atternoon. He Corressman Goeke addressed a big
was preparing for a hunting trip and crovd lu tho street, and the Governor was
while lifting his gun Into a buggy It was compelled also to speak to this overflow
accidentally dscharged. The shot tore the meeting!,
flesh and muscle off the left arm from tne . r,,n htmn anH rpH fl-
wrlst to ehe elbow. Had the barrel pull- lne t-eitno, Doys band and red fire
ed over a bit further it would have pene- greeted Messrs. Sandles apd Welty, the
trated his heart. Dr. Ay era was called nitt of the speakeds to arrive in this el
and dressed the wound. While suffering . .. ,, d DackBd tha ouarl.
a great deal, tha young man la doing very ly wl"le 11 M ciowu pacaea tne opera
nicely. house to Uitten to the speeches.
support of the real progressives of the
nation regardless of the party commit
ments to which they formerly subscribed.
"The president's speech on Saturday ac
complished one Important thing: It restor
ed the campaign to Its normal phase. By
that I mean that the contest Is returned
to the vital Issues which are up before
the nation to he passed upon the'record
of the Wilson administration In domestic
legislation and In conducting the foreign
relations of the government. For several
weeks the republican candidate has been
permitted to place a distorted emphasis
upon the eight-hour day issue.
"I believe unreservedly that President
Wilson and his administration are on the
right side of this Issue, both In the sense
of Justice and of popularity, but I do hot
regard the Issue as vital in this campaign
in which government policies which have
shaped the course that the whole future
history of the nation Is to follow are up
for decision. The paramount Issue is the
issue of peace or war. It Is for the na
tion to decide whether It prefers peace
..nH Mie m;i lnt,.n!i nff nf thu liiih nnrl nnh- '
le policy of the president or a truculent
policy, which is certain to drag us sooner
or later into the embroilments of a war,
whereas it is our duty to remain neutral
so that our inlluence may be asserted in
helm if of peace and the permanent wel
fare of humanity.
'Tnseen hands are reaching out to con
trol the foreign policy of our government.
urnnt that their rejich may have exceed
ed their grasp when the ballots are count
ed in November.
" It remains for the republican candi
date to aflirm his purposes with regard to
our i;uropean policy and our policy to
wards Mexico; whether he intends it or
not, the implication of his criticisms of
these extending policies, points directly
to our embroilment in Kurope and army
intervention in Mexico designed to serve
no higher purpose than to insure Ameri
can investments at the cost of Mexico's
aspirations toward freedom. Between
now and election day I want to see the
truth driven homo .time and time again,
that the basic issues to be resolved on
November 7th relate vitally to the fu
ture peace of this nution.
"The stamp of Wall street ,of the In
terests which see through dollar markea
spectacles and can think only In terms of
selfishness, is upon the opposition to Mr.
Wilson. Behind that opposition have ral
lied manv elements of widely divergent
beliefs.Aut all united in the single thought
of geinng hold of the government- for
their own profit and for the promotion of
interests which are not the public Inter
ests. "These men of Wall street don't put up
their money for a pig in a poke. Usually
they know what they are buying and the
people may rest assured that if they de
feat Mr. Wilson, these men of Wall street
will make the people pay back money with
interest and maybe with their lives.
"The Republican leaders only hope for
getting good team work out of the radi
cally antagonistic groups which make up
their following the progressives of 1912,
and the tariff reactionaries, the Roose
veltiuns, was to confine themselves to a
discreet and general d'scusslon of the
vital issues of the campaign. I do not be
lieve that the American people will tole
rate such a negative sort of cmpaign and
I know how the Americn people will vote
If the republicans commit themselves to
the promises of the attack as they have
launched against the president.
"I want to see the day come In Ameri
can politics when there will be like non
es! y on both sides of national campaigns.
However widely some men may disagree
with some of the things that Mr. Wilson
, (Continued on Eighth Page)
SALTZGABER
Commissioner of Pensions, and
Hon. J. V. Loree to Address
Mend on and Nep Voters.
TheDemocratc County Executive Corrv
niittee has arranged for meetings in Un
ion and Center township next week, one
at Mendo o Wednesday, October 18 nnd
at Neptune on Thursday, October 19. The
meetings wil Ibe held at the township
houses at 7 o clock in tne evening". The
meetings will be addressed by Hon. O. M.
Saltzgaber, Commissioner of Pensions, of
Washington. 1. t'.. una Hon. J. W. Loree,
of tiiis citv. Democrats should turn out
and hear these gentlemen. Mr Saltzga'
tii r is a Civil War Veteran and a most
able talker and will present clearly the is
sues of the campaign with reference to
the national ticket. Mr. I.oree will dis
cuss state and county politics.
Howard Bowser had his left collar bone
broken .nnd narrowly escaped Internal in
juries last Saturday afternoon, when the
ground caved In on a trench he was dig
ging at the Reuben Baker property. North
Walnut street, partly burying him be
neath the dirt. It took three laborers
llfteen minutes to remove the earth so
ha he could be extricated.
" SUers to Erect New Garage
Slier Brothers are clearing away the old
shed and outbuildings at the alley, west of
Main street on Wurren, preparatory to
erecting a new brick garage.
The new structure will be fifty feet wide
and ninety feet deep. Space wil lbe pro
vided for an office and show room in the
front of the building. The rear will be
equipped in an up-to-date way as mach
ine and repair shop, while the intervening
space will be marked off into storage
stalls. Arthur Siler, well known mechan
ic, until recently with the Lake View gar
age, South Main street, will bo in charge
of the repair department of tjie new concern.
DAN CUPID VICTIMS
Teh biggest social event In this city for
sometime was the marriage last Tuesday
of Mr. Kugene W. Allen, of Fostoria and
Miss Blanche Crockett, of this city. The
ceremony took place at the bride's home,
Ri st Market street, with the groom's pas
tor, Respires, of the Fostoria Presbyter
ian church olilciating. Only Immediate
relatives and a few very close friends of
the bride witnessed the ceremony. Fol
lowing the ceremony a sumptuous wed
ding dinner was served. Mr. and Mrs. Al
len left in the afternoon for a brief so
journ at Ashevllle. North Carolina, after
which they will go to their winter home
ut Miami, Florida.
The groom is one of the most prominent
bankers and manufacturers of Northern
Ohio ,and is the head of the Allen Motor
Car Company, at Fostoria, and president
of the Fostoria Union National Bank.
The bride Is the second oldest daughter
of .Mrs. S. H. Wrockett, Fast Market St.
She is a winsome and accomplished lady
and for many years was a teacher in the
public schools of this city. Several years
ago she became special teacher in the
Fostoria public schools, and through her
active literary and religious work and the
friendship manifested by one of her pu
pils, a daughter of Mr. Aliens', the en
gagement came about. Among the out-of
town guests at the wedding were Mr. and
Mrs. Warren Allen and son, Walter, Theo.
Allen, Mrs. Lau Allen and son, Miss Ida
Dyer, Kev. and Mrs. Pires, and the
groom's two daughters, Mary and Clara
Allen, all of Fostoria; Mrs. A. D. Guden
kauf, of Sidney; Mrs. Elmer Thorns, of
Lima.
-OLl.OU'lNG Is a stiMioiniililc it
IKirt of llio speech inndo by for
mer Governor James M. Cox ou
tha discussion of administrative at
fair wlt'a Governor Frank B. Willi
tt tks Miami Vallay Chautauqua, Mon
day, Aug. 14:
Mr. Cox in his tour of the county
made more or less reference to his de
uate with Gov. WVfllls at the Chautau
qua meeting, and the speech will be
of special interest In consequence.
".Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentle'
men: I am both proud and happy to
te here. I am glad that you are here.
I am delighted tiiat Governor Willis
Is here. (Applause and laughter.)
shall maka no trespass upon my time
by making the useless observation
that the amenities of this occasion
will be respected by both speakers,
respect Governor Willis as a gentle
man. I have known him long. I con
cede his fine qualities as a private
citizen and his honesty; but I am here
to challenge his record as a public of
fleer. He had scarcely spoken to this
crowd until ho declared that he was
advocating the principles of Thomas
Jefferson. (Laughter.) And yet he
is a candidate on the Republican tick
et. (Laughter.) Nobody save Frank
B. Willis and Almighty God know3
how he voted In 1912, whether for
Teddy or Taft N'ow we are confused
by these contradictory circumstances
his candidacy on the Republican
ticket and his advocacy of the princi
ples of ThomaB Jefferson. In order
that there may be a clear understand
ing, I am a Democrat (Applause.)
"And I ehall support whole-heartedly
our magnificent president in whose be
half the mothers of the land today are
sending prayers to the King on High.
(Applause.)
ON THE TAX LAW.
"Mr. Willis inveighs against the
Warnes law, and "ne has put In practi
cally all of his time explaining to you
why taxes are higher now than t'cey
were under the Warnes law. The
Warnes law was the tax law of Wil
liam McKinley. Tne Parrott-Whltte-more
law Is the tax law of Frank B.
Willis. I shall permit him, therefore,
during this campaign, to conduct a
Joint debate with the theories ard
economic principles of William Mc
Kinley. The Warnes tax law was
the tax hVw of Governor Foraker,
also of Governor Harmon. Now, let
m makn this observation with all
earnestness and without any dlspo
altlon to be disagreeable: There
never has .been a student of taxation
who has not proclaimed unreservedly
that the old system of electing asses
sors is Inefficient. I recognize per
fectly well that the subject gives the
demagogue a rare opportunity, ne
proclaims to the people that some
public officers have no confidence in
(Centlnued on fourth page)
"THE FODDER'S IN THE SHOCK"
(Lura Kelsey Clemlenlng, in Ohio State
journal j
yes, the frost Is on the "punkln"
And the foddtir's In the shock.
Though our well beloved poet Is no more.
no lias turned tne stiadowy corner
That the ministers allot
To those who bruvely go and close door.
lit oas gone away, nas ttiicy,
Willi the loves he used to know
Kefore a hint of silver touched Ills hair,
Kefore the days seemed weary
Aa they neared the afterglow.
Or tiie chilly breath of winter fringed the
air.
He has gone away, has Riley,
Vet the fodder' In the shock.
And the finny fish are bltin' good some
where; It is all the sume to Riley.
His house stood upon a rock.
And his friends will know and love him
over there.
BRYAN
To Feature Big Rally in Fifth
District at Ottawa
AfOAL
Rally of Holy Name Societies
of Mercer CGiinty
At St. Henry Scene of Remarks
ble Outpouring-Exercise
Very Impressive.
On Afternoon of October 13 In
Evening of Same Day Be Ad
dresses Democrats at Lima.
DISTRICT
Convention of Women's Relief
Corps Convenes Here Mon
day In Annual Session.
Earl Krugh sprung a surprise on his
friends, at least some of them, the other
tlav he slipped out of town and got mar
ried. Miss Kuth Faulkner, of Ohio City,
was the lady In the case. They were mar
ried by Justice Manship at Van Wert, on
Wednesday afternoon. Karl Is one of the
substantial young men of our town, in
dustrious and has good habits. His bride
Is one of Ohio City's best. Congratulations
and best wishes. Mendon Herald.
Mr. Andrew Wiemann of New Bremen,
and Miss Ruby Kriegel, of this city, were
united In marriage at the local Catholic
church last Tuesday morning. Rev. Ern
est Hefele reading the nuptial mass. 'The
young couple were attended by Clarence
Weimann and Miss Minnie Kriegel, broth
er and sister respectively of the contract
ing parties Following the ceremony a
tinea course wedding breakfast was serv
'(Continued "on Eighth Page)
The Third District Convention of the
Women's Relief Corps will convene in Ce
lina at nine o'clock a. m., in the Moose
mil, Tuesday October sixteenth. The
norning program will include:
Appointment of officers for the day.
Report of last meeting by Secretary E.
Jane lialley, Wapakoneta.
eicoine Address Alice L.ewis, ueuna.
Response Mary Bricker, St. Marys.
Reports from District Corps.
Ritualistic Work, Celina Corps.
The morning session will be a closed
one.
The flair that will be carried In the pro
cession from the hall to the church at
he noon hour will be presented to tne
High School.
liinner at St. 1'aui m. j-j. i. nurcn.
The convention twill convene in open
sesiiinn at the hall, at 1:30 and will be
npen to the public. All are lvited to be
present.
Memorial Aaaress tess n. ivuciieu, oi
Kenton.
Presentation of the nag by the Presi
dent, Iaura B. Callen.
Delegate's ReDort or National conven
tion, l'llu Jenkinson, Bellefontaine.
Remarks by Viola Galbreath, Dep't
Pres., Toledo; Margaret Elton, Matron of
Xenla Home.
Election of Officers.
Program subject to change.
The Bovs' Band will head the noon pa
rade of the local and visitiner corps. All
business houses are urged to hang out
the flags and make a patriotic demonstra
tion in keeping with the occasion.
BETZEL
Will Umpire Deciding: Game Be
tween Coldwater and Ft.'
Recovery Sunday.
Albert "Bruno" Betzel, second baseman
of the St. Louis National League team,
Just home .after finishing a most success
ful season, will umpire the deciding game
of the Coldwater-Ft. Recovery series to
be played at Ft. Recovery next Sunday.
Roth teams have been successful in win
ning two games. The fifth game, played
at Coldwater two weeks ago desulted in a
tie 4 and 4. the game being called at the
end of the ninth inning; on account of
darkness.
The local high school ball team last
Friday defeated Washington township
high In a one-sided contest at Mercelina
Field, 23 to 4.
Albert "Bruno" Botzel will play second
base for the fast Lima team In a game
with Toledo in tha former city next Sunday.
Ottawa Sentinel
The Great Commoner of America, W. J.
Bryan, will speak In Ottawa, on the af
ernoon of Monday, October 23. This will
be a big rally meeting of Democrats of the
"if til Congressional District. At night he
s to speak at Lima. These are the only
addresses that Mr. Bryan is slated to give
In Northwestern 0hlo. Putnam county Is
he Democratic strong-hold of northern
Ohio. The State Committee has picked
utnam County as the Central point for
Mr. Bryan to open the campaign in this
part of the state. State candidates will
come. Big newspapers will have their best
writers here. Special trains may be run
from JIuncdck, Henry, Defiance and
P.'iiililing counties. District and county
candidates of this section of Ohio will be
on the speaker s platform. The State
Committee wants to make this one of the
big meetings in the 1916 campaign
Chairman Sheibley will encourage the
Democratic Committeemen in every town
and precinct to organize a delegation.
There may be a parade .autos, hoseback
Iders and foot-men. A hundred places
asked for Mr. Bryan in Ohio. Northwest
em Ohio Democrats are fortunate In hav
ng the peerless orator to come and ex
plain the vital Issues of the present cam
paign. Bryan knows that much Is ex-
ct d of him. His speech at Ottawa is
expected tp be one of the best of his life.
He win speaK directly upon the Issues laid
down in the Democratic national plat.
form. Hundreds of Republicans are ex
petted to hear his addiess. This Is the
me when the Democracy of Putnam
ounty and the District should fly the old
me Flag of Democracy and Thomas Jef
ferson.
This is a great national campaign. Al
lost all the world is at war. No citizen
hould be guilty of lack of interest. Our
soldier boys are on the border. No man
woman should be dull or indifferent to
ard public questions at issue In this
mpaign. Bryan is r coming. A good
meeting at tills opening will mean good
meetings in every part or tne county. Let
Old l'utnam rally to Democracy and its
cause.
THE GRIM REAPER
Gustave Beutelspacher, aged 60 years,
father of Mrs. Henry J. Smith, formerly
of this city, died at the Smith home at
Mt. Gilead, last Sunday.
Deceased was known to many In this
city, having spent considerable time here
duriiyr the time his daughter resided in
this city. While here he became acquain
ted with and five years ago married Miss
Anna Cordier, of this city. He waa U. S.
consul at St. Johns. Nova Scotia, during
the administration of President McKinley.
Victor, aged 3 months another of the
YVinans triplets, died last Tuesday morn
ing at the home of the parents, Mr. and
Mrs. E. Wlnans. West Lcgan street. One
of the triplets died several weeks ago.
The other, a girl, still survives. Funeral
services were held Wednesday.
Mrs. Lewis Kugle, aged 35 years, of
Washington township, died at the Grant
hospital at Columbus last Friday after
noon following an operation for goiter.
Deceused had been suffering from goiter
for the past couple of years. Last Thurs
day she went to the Columbhus hospital
for treatment and was operated upon at
ten o'clock last Friday morning. She ral
lied nicely from the operation but a few
hours later collapsed and u.. about four
o'clock the same afternoon.
Jeceased was born in ILbertv townshln.
where she had always resided. Her hus
band and four children, the youngest a
babe of two years old. Survive. The re
mains were removed to her home last
Saturday morning. Funeral services were
nelil at tne Reiormed Lutheran church,
Liberty township last Monday morning,
wiin Kev. S. Lgger ot Chattanooga, offi
ciating.
Arthur Andrew, of near Macedon, was
taken to the Lima hospital last Monday,
accompanied by Mrs. Andrew, Dr. M. B.
Fishbaugh and Ralph McMillan and was
operated upon for mastoids on Monday
night. Following the operation meningi
tis developed and he died at the hospital
at 12:23 p. m. on Thursday.
Undertaker J. R. Desch went to Lima
and returned with the body Thursday ev
ening taking it to his late home. The
funeral will be held Sunday afternoon at
Beaver Chapel, Swamp College, leaving
the home at 1 p. m. Burial will be in the
Swamp College cemetery.
Mr. Andrew was born in Butler town
ship on March 3. 1876. and resided in this
township ail his life until last February
he moved on a farm he had purchased
near Macedon. He was a hard-working
armer. honest in his transactions with
his fellowmen and ever ready to assist and
aid those In distress. He was a kind hus
band, and father and devoted to his home.
and was highly respected by all who
Knew mm.
On February 8. 1902. he was united in
marriage to Miss Susannn Coate. and to
this happy union two children were born
Willie, aged 13, and Clara, aged 11 years.
He is survived by his devoted wife, son
and daughter and three sisters, Mrs. Wall
swartz, of this place: Mrs. Maria
Schwartz, of Fostoria. and Mrs. Wm.
Lacy, of Sheridan. Michigan.
The family have the deep sympathy of
the pntirft onmmiinitir In thuit- hnnr nf
sorrow. -Coldwater Chronicle.
Almost five thousand people from the
Catholic parishes of this and neighboring
counties attended the annual rally of tba
Holy Name Societies of the county held
at St. Henry last Sunday. The weather
was Ideal for the occasion and the busi
ness houses and homes of the little village
were decorated with flags, bunting and
penants of welcome.
Something over sixteen hundred men.
marching four abreast and headed by
mounted marshals and the Celina band
puraded the streets of the little town. The
parade was almost a mile In length and
was a very Impressive and Inspiring spec
tacle. The parade was headed by a number of
mounted horsemen, with Joseph Macke,
acting as grand marshal. There were
twenty-two divisions each representing a
parish society, and carrying their branch
banners and the I'nited States flag, the
member all wearing the official badge
and many carrying pennants. It was
reviewed by a lame crowd who packed
the streets of the line of march who were
impressed by the orderly, reverent atti
tude of the marches, and showed silent
respect for the cause of the great demon
stration. Coldwater had the largest society repre
sentation In the parade, their being more
than two hundred members In their div
ision. Celina was next with about one
hundred and fifty.
The procession ended and assembled in
the grotto grove, at the rear of the
church, where on a pulpit errected in
front of the stone grotto the Rev. Eu
gene Grimm, C. P. P. S. delivered a pleas
ing nnd appropriate address both in Ger
man and English.
After the address Benediction of tha
Blessed Sacrament waa given by Very
Rev. Geo. Hindlang. C. P. P. S.. of this
city at which, all kneeling recited In uni
son the litany of the Holy Name. Hera
a most picturesque sight greeted the eye
when a trained choir of one hundred
school hoys and girls, the girls attired in
white sashes the boys with purple sashes
sang the hymns" Praise Te the Father,"
"Come Holy Ghost." and "Ave Maria."
The young choir, which attracted con
siderable attention was under the direct-
Ion of Prof. H. J. Bernard, head of the St.
Henry schools.
rather Grimm In part said:
"We see Europe today In the midst
of the greatest casastrophe of history,
because they have gradually abandon
ed faith In God and reverence for the
Supreme Hiety. There today men are
slaughtering each other, where here to
day we have an altogether different and
more pleasant sight.
These annual rallies held all over thla
country are eraduallv Droducine a word
-4t good and creating a wide influence.
it has earned the respect of all good and
decent citizens regardless of creed, who
commend in highest terms the public
effort made to curb lawlessness of
speech. Your pledge stands for high
ideals live up to them and don't fall In
your obligation that of receiving month
ly the Holy Communion. I ask that you
pray earnestly for all your spiritual
needs, and those of your family. Pray
for your country and ask God may grant
peace to the world."
COMMISSIONERS
Find In Favor of Little Chickasaw
Dltch-Halnllne Dltcb Work
to Be Sold on 17th.
Walter LeBlond. emoloved at the P.
Kuntz & Herr Lumber company, was bad
ly hruisea up. but luckily escaped serious
injury last Friday, when a scaffold on
which he was doing some work broke and
he fell fourteen feet to the ground. No
bones were broken.
Meeting on the hearing on the assess
ment on the Brock ditch the Board con
firmed same.
The Board fixed October 17 as the time
for the sale of the work of constructing
the Halnllne ditch. Same will be sold
t public outcry at the Commissioner's of
fice.
The Board found In favor of the Little
Chickasaw joint ditch. The following
route was determined upon: Beginning on
the north side of Short pike between Sec
tions 25 and 24, thence north through
lands of W. P. Stroefer, C. H. Sanders.
S. N. Cnnkel into State (round, where
said ditch empties Into Grand Reservoir
nd there terminate, all in Frank in town-
hip. November 24 at 10 a. m. was fixed
s the time for hearing all final matters
pertaining on the improvement.
1 ne Boards or Auglaize and Mercer
ounties met in Joint session last Monday
on the Fisher joint ditch and rescinded
n order for the collection of taxes on
nd ditcti this year.
The fallowing bills were allowed last
Friday and are now payable:
R. Cain, compensation for land
on Stoner road S 35 00
Bernard Gerlach, same on Rut-
schilling road 10 00
Delia Brown, cleaning surveyor's
omce b 00
?lina & Mercer Co. Tel. Co.,
rent and tolls 12 60
Children's Home of Deleware, care
ot children 88 00
Western Union Tel. Co., colck ser
vice K 00
McManns-Troup Co., books 22 60
i rnnK Warrick, serving ditch no
tices 8 00
L. W. Rancher ,supt. Beaver ditch. 183 46
Otto Fickert. county's portion of
township ditch 36 60
New Bremen Bridge Co.. full pay
on Dresher bridge 194 00
Frank Harb. bridge repair 20 16
Gallon Iron Works , sewer pipe.... 30 00
O. S. Ashcraft, bridge repair 69 80
Michael Breymeier. same 15 80
N. L. Hinton. ditch fees 90 00
Same, eng. expense account 64 OU
D. R. Smalley .same 11 60
Otto Witten, same 28 26
Cluis. King, asst. eng 2 00
S. J. Carter, same 18 00
Arden Jones, same 2 Oil
Car Jones, same I 00
Abe Jones, same 2 00
E. O. Williams, same I 00
Royden Williams, same 100
Peter OMger, inspector on Rutsch-
ling pike 47 00
Bernard Westerheide, repairing
receivers. 5 46
Geo. Huber. supt. Wabash ditch.. 38 60
D. C. Grimm .Inspector on Suave
ly pike 34 00
G. W. Sapp, same on Grauberger
pike 10 J 0
M. Staugler Son, full pay on
Hurting & Meier pike 100 00
O. F. Spahr, same on Rutschllllng
pike 2102 00
Howell & Steiner, same on Cum
mins pike. .. 434 00
A. G. Trippeer, estimate on Addy
No. 2 pike 3400 00
C. Reler, same on Gerlach pike... 600 00
Same, same on Taney pike 1600 00
Frank Dillhoft & Co., same on
Buxton pike 400 00
M.innix Bros., same on Harden
pike 2200 00
Auglaize Co., county's share on the
Bates joint bridge 385 CO
AS PIKE DIRECTORS
Joe Pax, hauling stone 7 I'O
Columbus Frysinger, supt. of
pikes 17 75
W. Caywood. levee on Purdy pike. 145 00
wiggim crushed Staone & Sand
Co., gravel 73 62
Greenville Gravel Co., same 4 76
Albert Muthert. same 148 95
Erie 'Stone Co., stone 2 65
Same, same 83 22
John W. Karch, same 84 87
H. M. Brock, supt. of pikes 117 40 '
Chas. Bollenbacher. same 80 26
Owen Tiilhnne, same 8 76
Henry Linn, eame If !
