The Caldwell Watchman
VO L. ;) ('tOL ~i~1.,!, ., ll , I1l)4L~ ' 1 )l 1 ;, . I N .
SINKS 6 SHIPS
OFF U. S. COAST
AMERICAN SHIP WAS STOPPED
BUT ALLOWED TO PROCEED
NANTUCKET HEARD FIRING.
U. S. SHIPS MAKE RESCUES
Presence of Submarines in Atlantic
Lane of Travel Strikes Terror to
Shipping and General Warning
Is Sent Out.
* Boston.-Two more steamers *
* have been sunk. One was the
* Dutch steamer Bloomersdijk and *
* the other the Norwegian steam. *
er Christian Knudsen.
* Newport, R. I.-There is evi- *
dence accepted seriously by *
* Some naval men that two Ger
* man sumarines are operating
* off the coast.
Boston.-A German submarine, sup
posedly the U-53 which called at New
port, torpedoed aid sank the British
freight steamers Strathdene, Stephano
and Kingston and torpedoed and crip
pled the British freighter West Point
off Nantucket. No loss of life was re
ported. The submarine also held up
the American freight steamer Kansan,
but later allowed her to proceed.
The crew of the steamer Strath
dene, nearly all of them Lascars, were
taken aboard the Nantucket lightship.
The officers and men of the West
Point took to their small boats after
summoning assistance from shore.
The uistress signals of the West
Point were picked up by the govern
ment radio station at Newport R. I.
and immediately Rear Admiral
Gleaves, commander of the destroyer
flotilla of the American Atlantic fleet,
ordered, virtually all of his ships to
the rescue. The West Point gave 'er
position as 50 miles southeast of Nan
tucket, but the navy officials said that
later reports indicated that the vessel
was not more than 10 miles off shore.
The weather was thick and it was ex
pected that the crew would not be
brought into Newport before midnight.
The booming of the submarine's
gunm, apparently fired in warning,
was distinctly heard at Nantucket.
But where the submbrsible was at
the moment these reports were heard
was pure speculiation. It was plain,
however, that she had placed herself
in the lane of passenger and freight
traffic and terrorized shipping along
the coast.
Vessels Change Their Course.
Immediately after the first distress
signals of the West Point were sent
broadcast, wireless messages were
sent up and down the coast and far
out to sea, warning every vessel that
a German submarine was operating
in the steamer lane. Every vessel
equipped with wireless was told to
make at top speed for the three mile
zone and the commanders of mer
chant vessels of the entente allies lost
no time in shifting their course.
Those that were following what is
known as the outside course turned
to the inside course that would bring
them closer to American land. The
passenger steamer Stephano, which
plies regularly between New York
and St Johns, N. F., was bound west
and was due off Nantucket tomorrow
morning. When her British com
mander received his warning he was
said to have shifted his course to
bring his vessel within the inside lane.
British consular officers along the
New England coast who had been ad
vised by the British embassy to warn
British shipping against the U-53 upon
her appearance at Newport, renewed
their caution on learning that the sub
marine had gone into action.
Something like a panic possessed
the minds of shippers in this city and
at other ponts along the coast when
the first reports of the torpedoing
were received from the radio station.
The stories regarding the U-53 which
appeared in the Sunday papers had
arouseu much speculation as to her
mission, and the news that she had
attacked British vessels traveled fast.
Anxious inquiries were made at the
Newport offices from seemingly al
most everyone who had a friend on
the water or owned a share of stock
in a merchant bottom.
Radio Stations Closed.
The Fredericr VIII of the Scandina
vian-American Line, which is bringing
home the American ambassador to
Germany, James W. Gerard, and Mrs.
Gerard, was 600 miles east of New
York at noon Sunday. Assurance that
the ambassador and his wife were
on a neutral vesselt was given to in
aufring friends by the press.
The radio stations which at first
had given to the newwspapers the news
of the torpeldoing and were slowly
pg .her-ilg a:dditional facts, ,'erte sud!
d' r ly r .clo: ( d to the press by an order
fioni tlhe Navy l)epartmerit at Wash
;;:on. It wts explained tti h at every
Sthing learned by the government sta
tions must first be transmiitt d to thie
Navy Department before being made
public.
Particulars of the attack, however.
continuted to come from merchant
vess-els to commercial wireless plants
and through marine observers on
shore.
The t:-5:l which anchored for three
h!ours in Newport harbor, while ('om
mtander Ilans Rose sent ashore cor
- respondenc.e from Germany for tl:e,
Ge'rman ambassador, Count von Bern
storff, and exch:anged official calls
with Rear Admiral Gleaves and Rear
Admiral Knight, commandant of the
Narragansett Bay station, slipped out
of the harbor and submerged just in
side the three-mile limit.
American Ship Not Molested.
At daylight she turned up south
east of Nantucket and got in the way
of the American steamer Kansan of
the American-Hawaiian Line, bound
from New York for Genoa by way of
Boston, with freight. The Wansan
was flying the American flag. She
was stopped by the submarine. As
sured that the Kansan was an Ameri
can owned vessel, the submarine later
allowed her to proceed.
Captain Smith of the Kansas re
ported in a wireless message to the
captain of the Nantucket Shoals light
ship that he had been stopped. He
said the submarine showed no colors,
but from his meager description of the
craft naval men were satisfied that it
was the U-53.
A half hour later the submarine en
countered the Strathdene, command
ed by Captain Wilson and under char
ter by the French Line. A subse
quent message from the Nantucket
lightship stated that the Strathdene
had been sunk and that the crew
of 20 men were on the lightship. The
steamer carried a crew of 34, so there
was some doubt as to whether the
lightship had picked them all up or
had correctly reported. The Strath
dene sailed from New York for Bor
deaux. she was of 4,321 tons and 375
-teet in lcagth.. She was., built in
Greenwich in 1900 and was owned in I
Glasgow.
Pursuing her hostile course, the I
submarine next came up with the
West Point, bound from London for
Newport News. The fate of the Brit- I
ish freighter was told in the follow
ing wireless dispatch from her com
mander, Captain Hayden, to the naval
radio station:
"British steamer West Point stop
ped by submarine and fired upon:
getting boat ready. Position 40:25
north, 69 west. Get cutter."
West Point Was Sinking.
Later messages gave further de
tails. One stated that the steamer
was being shelled by the submarine
when the message was sent at 11:15
a. m. A third message said that the
vessel was attacked at 10:45 o'clock
10 miles south of Nantucket. This
message caqsed confusion regarding
the exact position of the freighter.
The steamer Kansan picked up the
distress signals of the West Point
and proceeded to her assistance. Then
the Boston Navy Yard, at 1:30 o'clock,
received a message from the Kansan
stating that the West Point was sink
ing and that the Kansan was going
to her aid. The disabled vessel was
then 55 miles distant and the Kansan
was making 12 knots.
Later a private dispatch added the
information that the submarine, after
stopping the West Point, ordered the
crew into their small boats. The
crew abandoned the ship, which was
then torpedoed. It was in a sinking
condition when last reported.
Menatime the American line steam
ship Philadelphia, which left few
York for Liverpool, had gotten within
the war zone and an S. O. S. wireless
message was received by her com
mander. He held his course for the
east.
During the day no word came from
the British and French patrol vessels
which have been watching the Atlan.
tie coast, from which vessels of the
entente allies with munitions of war
have daily set out. A message was
sent to Halifax asking for the press
Information as to what was being done
to protect British and French ship
ping from the submarine. The reply
came that the British commander in
chief of the Halifax station, which is
directing the patroling fleet, was con
sidering whether any statement by
him ras advisable.
Many rumors were afloat, including
one that a fleet of German subma.
rines were off the coast. Another
had it that the Germans had estab
lished a submarine base on the Cana
dian coast.
Another bpeculation was that supply
ships were co-operating with the U-53.
Those who held to the latter opinion
pointed out that the submarine, after
ostensibly crossing the Atlantic unas
sisted, arrived at Newport fully prov.
I stoned for three monthlls and not re
qulring fuel or so much as a jug of
water.
Samuel Prey, New England agent of
the America n-'T'awnaiian st;:tmlship
Company, whose steamer, the Kansan,
- was halted hb a s~ubiarincl. said he
had received no information from
Capt. itm it tih (oncernlilg the incident.
The Kansan, whcwh is uinder charter
to the French Canada Litne, was ex
Iected to arrive here, but changed her
1(course in response to distress calls
from the steamer West oint. At 1
o'clock the Kansan notitified the Boston
naivy yard that she was 5:; miles from
the disabled steamer and expected to
reach her in five hours, traveling at a
speed of 12 knots.
SThe Kansan left New York with a
cargo of steel and was comning to Bos
ton on her way to Genoa to take
aboard a shipment of horses for the
enntente allies. Within the immlnlediate
zone of possible further operations by
the U-53 are several trans-Atlantic
steamships under registry of nations
with which Germany is at war. Also
the American line steamer Philadel
phia, with passengers and freight from
New York for Liverpool, is in the wa
ters from which reports of a German
submersible have come, and the Scan
dinavian-American liner Frederick VIII
is approaching that part of the coast,
bound to New York from Copenhagen. I
Many Allied Ships Near.
Better known among the vessels, be
cause of their registry and their pres
ent positions to the submarine men
ace, are the French liner Epagne, from
Bordeaux for New York:; the Anchor
liner Cameronia, bound to New York t
from Glasgow and Liverpool, and the
Cunarder Alaunia, only a few hours
out from New York for Falmouth and
London. Other vessels of lesser size
were reported approximately in the
same waters.
Most of these steamships had re
ceived by wireless word sent broad
cast by radio stations to all vessels of
the presence of the German submer
sible of the New England coast. This
was regarded as constituting orders
to change courses. The result was in
dicated in messages that this vessel or
that was swinging in-shore to be re
moved further from possible contacti
with the submersible and to be w thin
easy .speeding distance of the'
mile zone of protection. -
Francis P. Leay, the British consul
here, was in constant touch with
steamship officials, and on the
strength of reports that the submarine
had begun a, wholesale attempt to de
stroy entente vessels, a code message
was dispatched to the embassy at
Washihgton setting forth the facts as
far as obtainable.
Consul Leay declined to make any
statement. He explained that while
press reports had chronicled the de
parture of the U-53 from Newport, it
was necessary to give British ships of
ficial warning in order to safeguard
them from attack. There was no
doubt in the mind of those at the con
sulate that the submarine had come to
American waters to begin operating
off the Atlantic coast, it was said, and
every effort, therefore, was made to
notify shippers of the possible dan
ger.
Shipping is Terrorized.
When it became known early in the
day that the American steamer Kan
san had been halted much fear was ex
pressed among steamship officials
that the American steamer Kansanr
had been halted much fear was ex
pressed among steamship officials that
the U-53 would be heard from in a
few hours at the latest.
Telephone messages forthwith were
sent to agents of steamship lines here,
and the consulate endeavored to get
into communication with every mas
ter of a British vessel along the
coast. There was no attempt to dis
guise or conceal the fact that ship
ping had been terrorized by the daring
performance of a German submarine
so far from its home base.
The British consul said he had no
information as to the present where
abouts of British patrol boats, al
though he assumed that the vessels
had been notified by wireless that the
U-53 was a few miles off the coast. It
was learned that the embassy's warn
ing had been sent to Halifax, N. S.,
the naval base of the British ships
operating in the North Atlantic, and to
other points in the maritime prov
inces.
Whether any vessels had remained
in port because of the submarine's
presence could not be learned, but the
warning was so general and reports
of the attacks on the West Point and
the Strathdene spread so rapidly, that
maritine authorities admitted unusual
precautions were being taken to re
main out of the line of danger.
Expand Signal Company.
San Antonio, Tex.-pending a plan
to expand the Missouri Signal Com
pany into a battalion, the order for
its return home from this station has
been suspended by lieneral Funston.
A Kansas Signal Company will go
home instead
MAY SEEK ACTION
BY CONSENT BOARD
BAILEY ORDERED TO PUT REPUB
LICAN ELECTORS ON THE
TICKET. t
LIST OF NOMINEES FILED
They Have Already Nominated Elec
tors by Nomination Papers, Which
Are On File in the Secretary of
State's Office. t
Baton Rouge.--
The contest board probably will be
called upon to decide whether the
Walter Cohen "Black and Tan" fac
tion or the Hebert "Lily White" fac
tion constitutes the Republican party
in Louisiana, with the right to have
the names of their moninees for pres
lidential electors appear on the ticket
bf the general election in November.
The "Black and Tans" have filed
with the secretary of state a list of
nominees for electors chosen at a con
rention of the faction held in New
f:+rleans. They already have nominat
led electors by nomination papers
which are on file in the secretary or
state's office, but the papers are said
to lack the requisite numbers of sig
natures.
The calling of the convention was
a safeguard adopted by the Cohen
element.
On a suit brought by the "Lily
White" faction in the District Court
at. Baton Rouge, Secretary of State
Bailey was ordered by Judge Ellis to
recognize the Republicans as a party
iand to place the names of their nomi
nees, chosen by convention, on the
ticket. Both the "Lily Whites" and
the "Black and Tans" have candidates
,o nominated on file in the office.
Either side has seventy-two hours un
d the law to file a contest.
alter Cohen is expected to file
test. The nominees of the Co
-'tif0 ,are; .D. A. Linya, Or
l s, and Emile Kuntz, Orleans; at
large, Hugh Larre, Orleans, First Dis
trlet; C. J. Bell, Orleans, Second dis
trict; Frank LeBlanc, Iberia, Third;
C. Ellerbe, Caddo, fourth; W. T. Ins
ley, Richland, Fifth; Louis Rosenthal,
St. Tammany, Sixth; F. F. Woolfley,
Calcasieu, Seventh; W. L. Roach,
Eighth.
STATE HAPFENINGS.
Bids were received by T. C. Whea
don of the Rapides parish police jury
for the purchase of $60,000 worth of
bonds recently voted by the taxpay
ers in Road District No. 8 for the pur
pose of constructing graveled roads
in the Bayou Rapides section of the
parish. The bonds were sold to the
Rapides Bank of Alexandria, which
'paid a premium of $503 with accrued
interest, their bid being $60,503.
The property of the late H. C. Drew
of Lake Charles has been inventoried
at $218,000 by O. S. Dolby and D. M.
Foster, appraisers. The Bayou Chou
pique Plantation, including the pump
~ing plant and canal and other proper
ty in the Seventh parish ward is in
ventoried at $164,700 Other real es
tate in the parish, including Lake
Charles and Vinton property, is ap
praised at $27,000.
Four cadets were dismissed from
Louisiana State University for hazing,
following complaints lodged with the
authorties by the parents of two freslh
men from Hammond. La. The dis
missed students are E. W. Drackett,
Morgan City; E. L. Butler, Liberty
Hill; H. S. Genius, Campti, and G. D.
McKnight, Colfax. All four are soph
omores.
The tabulation of the card reports
;shows that there were 184 bales of
cotton, counting round as half bales,
'ginned in Grant parish from the crop
of 1916 to prior to September 1, 1916,
as compared with 12 bales ginned
prior to September 1, 1915. This is
an increase of 172 bales over the re
port fgr the same time last year.
A committee of New Orleans mari
ners presented Capt. Nels Anderson
of the Swedish bark Tana with a gold
watch for what they termed his "he
roic rescue on August 23 of members
of the crew of the steamer Admiral
Clark." Gifts also were presented to
the fitrst mate and the steward of the
Tana.
Several large orange groves near
Pointe a la Hache were sold to New
Orleans fruit merchants in the past
few days, who paid the growers cash
for the crops on the trees, gathering
the fruit themselves. The crop of
the grove belonging to the Deer Range
SPlanting Company sold for $1 net per
box for all fruit on the trees.
Petitions aslkiitr that the ordinance
wtihe provide. for the purcha-e by
the ci'y of Shroveport of the holdngs
of the Shrev,-pert \VWatr,,'rks Com
p;any ie rl'ferr.(dt to ti I pept for a
,piil;ar IVOlte w\\ere placfd in irculation
throughoullt the town follo\ ing action
of thye Si ri'velport. 'ate.r\\orks (cf
Illlttee (' a meeting. TIIle (or iti  itee
also adlptd a resolut oil (exprt-essing
as its sentiment that at the proper
time the entire question of the opera
tion of the old plant. to be acquired
for $800,.00 and building a new one
for $t05.000 shall be referred to the
people for settlement at another ret
erendumn elect ion.
While it may appear that the de
man(d for a referendum on the pur
chase of the oil plant is in the nature
of a protest against the council's ac
tion it was very clearly demotnstrated
that such is in trlluth not the ca-e.
l'The people are committed to the
('Olrse followed by the council and
the referendum is but a formality re'
(luired by Dillon, Thompson & ('lay, s
inunicipal bond experts of New York, r
to whom the agreement to purerase
the plant was submitted for their ap
proval. The city has an opinion of
the Louisiana Supreme ('ourt estab- '
lishing the validity of the bonds with
which the purchase price is to be rais
ed. but the bond experts are not con- f
tent to rely on this one opinion and
insist that the referendum he held in
confirmation of the council's agree
ment with the waterworks company.
The question of demanding a refer- i
endum on the plan to build an en- t
tirely new pumping and treating plant
was also brought up. Several were
for putting petitions for a referendum t
on this question into circulation with
those for the submission of the pur
chase ordinance but their arguments
were overcome by the opposition voic
ed by V. Grosiean, John Keel and oth
ers.
Western hotels will be Introduced
to Louisiana yams and open kettle
molasses and syrup by Harry D. Wil
son of Baton Rouge, commissioner of
agriculture. Mr. Wilson has deter
mined upon a campaign to provide a
market for these two crops and will
address personal letters to hotel man
agers and send them samples. Mr.
Wilson says the Louisiana yam is far
superior to the dry, stringy sweet po
tat6 ,raised in the West, gwja he tij
sure tie people of the West wil sooli
be taking the surplus crop off the
hands of the farmers of this state af
ter the Louisiana potato is introduced.
Asserting that the Shreveport Board
of Health is not legally empowered
to adopt ordinances, Attorney W. .
Barnett, representing P. Vaky, charg
ed with selling milk not up to health
board standard, filed a brief in the
city court questioning the constitu
y tionality of the ordinance. Mr. Bar
f nett told the court that this, he be
lieved, was the first time in eighteen
years that the law had been attacked.
e The work of the 1915-1917 session
e of the State Normal School at Natchi
i toches has begun very auspiciously.
a On account of crowded classes in
English, history and mathematics,
two additional teachers have had to
Sbe employed for part time. The at.
tendance at the end of the second
week of the current session was 1,033,
of whom 710 are in the normal depart
ment and 323 in the training school.
The first nonresident hunting li
cense of the season was sold to Jo
Sseph Leiter of Chicago, who arrived
at Pointe a la Hache on a visit to
his $30,000 hunting lodge nearing com
pletion at Cubitts Gap, near the mouth
of the river. Mr. Leiter will enjoy
his first deer hunt on October 1.
when the season opens, on his 4,000
acre game preserve.
The Natchitoches city election de
cided hereafter live stock will not be
Spermitted to run at large in the city
limits. This includes East Natchito
Sches, the newly incorporated part
lying across Cane river, as well as
West Natchitoches. This settles a
a question which has been agitated
f twelve years, and which has been
, voted on three times.
, The business district of Sibley was
d almost destroyed by a fire which origt I
S nated in the J. T. Harvill building.
SThe total loss was placed at $30,000
Among the buildings destroyed were
the Vicksburg, Shreveport and Pacifice
- Railway depot, the Harvill building
I and store and the Ross hotel.
The Louisiana Commission for the
S Blind will conduct a booth at the Jet
1 ferson Parish Fair. Blind persons
0 will be seen making hammocks, bas
e kets, chairs, etc. Demonstrations in
typewriting in points also will be
amohg the attractions of this booth.
' A warrant was served on H. B. A.p
t gar of Monroe, follo Aing an indict
h ment returned by the grand jury in
g connection with the failure of the
if Union National Bank. The bond was
e fixed at $2,000 and was readily thr
r nished when ten prominent citiaens
volunteered their signatures.
BERLIN IiUST KEEP
FAITH WITH U. S.
'RESIDENT WILSON MAKES A
STATEMENT RECARDING SUB
MARINE WARFARE.
IN TOUCH WITH EVENTS
German Ambassador Delivers Personal
Letter From Emperor Without Infor
mation on Submarine Warfare
Will Keep Her Promise.
ILong Branch, N. J.- -I'resident Wil
son announced as a result of the Ger
mian sutlbtariin' attacks on ' esetls off
l,e American coast that "the tGermlan
government will be held to the com
plete fulfillment of its promises to the
government of the United States.
lie added that he had no right now
to question (;erniany's willingness to
fulfill the promises.
Just before Ambassador Bernstorff
Scalled on the president Mr. Wilson
issned the following statement:
"This government will, of course,
first inform itself as to all the facts
that there may be no doubt or mistake
as far as they are concerned.
"The country may rest assured that
the German government will be held
to the complete fulfillment of its
promise to the government of the
United States. I have no right now to
question its willingness to fulfill
them."
The ambassador came here to de
liver a personal letter from the Ger
man emperor on Polish relief. The
president planned to discuss with him
the attack on vessels off the American
coast.
Count von Bernstorff, following his
I talk with President Wilson, declared
. that from information in his posses
sion all the attacks on vessels off the
r American coast by German subnma
rines had been conducted in accord
-aj gtle with the. rules of civiliiAd war- .
t Are.....
e "Germany has premised to omduct
r- her submarine warfare in accordance
I. with the rules of cruiser warfare," the
German ambassador said, "and Ger
d many always keeps her promises."
d After the ambassador's call, admin
istration officials said that peace had
not been discussed, but that the pres
h ident had brought up the submarine
e attacks off the Atlantic coast. It was
stated that Cbunt von Bernstorff told
' the president he had no information
from his government on the question,
a but was certain that promises already
. made would be kept.
Sn word Fish Rams Launch.
Galveston. Tex.-The United States
engineering launch Neuces was ram
med by a 15-foot swordfish while in
Sthe intercoastal canal between Caney
creek and the Brazos river. A big hole
d was made in the Neuces below the wa
ter line, but she was kept afloat.
i. Regulations Withdrawn.
Washington.-Great Britain has
- I withdrawn regulations for the impor
Station of cigar tobacco, which Ameri
d can growers have declared would ruin
o their business, and authorized imports
Son the basis of those in 1913, 1914
h and 1915.
S Branch Bank In Memphis.
Memphis, Tenn.-T. C. Tupper, vice
chairman of the St. Louis Federal Re
serve bank, has opened a branch of
- the St. Louis institution h~re for the
e handling of cotton business. A siml
Y lar braich of the St. Louis bank is
- maintained at New Orleans.
.5 Corporal Fatally Shot.
a Laredo, Tex.--Corporal Leopold L.
d Lovell of K Company, Second Maine
T Infantry, stationed here, was shot and
instantly killed as be walked from a
store. Investigation has not shown
Swho fired the shot.
i. _
Kaiser To East Front.
. Berlin.--It is officially announc'ed
Sthat Emperor William has left for iTe
Seastern front to visit the troops of
g General von Linsingen, against wlom
the principal Russian attack is being
directed.
* Embargo On Knit Cotton.
SWashington.-Consul General Skin
nei at London notified the Iepartmnent
Sof Commerce that Great Britain has
e extended the embargo against impor
tations into the United Kingdom to in
elude cotton knit goods.
Franz Josef III Again.
lLondon.--A report reaching Vie!,na
from Genevra says that Emperor Fran
Scis Joseph is confined to his bed with
Sbronchitis and that his condition is
causing anxiety.
