VOTE AND WORK AGAINST ALL REFERENDUM MEASURES
Education
Organization
Emancipation
, VOL. XXV.
* —_____
REFERENDUM MEASURE No. 6
After all the agitation on Referendum Measure No. 6, known
as the "anti-picketing" law, it is doubtful if the average voter
realizes how drastic are the provisions of that bill, nor how ef
fectively it would throttle the efforts of the trade union movement
to win better working and living conditions. Scarcely anyone can
be found today who dares to deny that trades unionism exerts an
influence for good in the lives of the workers. The most bitter
of unionism tries to qualify his public statements by
distinguishing between the "good" union and the "bad" one.
There are a few people who mistakenly imagine that trade
unionism plays the role of "persecutor" toward employers and
business men generally. Far from it. The long list of unions who
carry en amicable relations with employers through the medium
of agreements, oral and written, disproves that idea. It does be
come necessary, when argument fails to bring about a satisfactory
agreement between employer and employee covering working con
ditions, to acquaint the public and our fellow craftsmen with the
facts in dispute. To let fellow craftsmen and the public know the
workers' side of the dispute, picket lines are established, printers'
ink utilized, various methods employed.
The Federal Congress has definitely established certain rights
which union men, acting singly or in concert, may exercise in
laying their case before the public. The proposed referendum
measure not only abrogates rights guaranteed by federal law, but
in a most decisive way strikes at the constitutional right of free
speech and free press.
The proposed law was submitted to men prominent in labor
circles, both in state and nation, and they were asked to study the
law and write us their opinion on the same. The prominence of
these men and their long study of industrial problems lends weight
to their conclusions, and we submit herewith extracts from the
letters received from each:
SAMUEL GOMPERS
President American Federation of Labor
"The right to picket is essential to securing an understanding
or even a hearing for many an industrial dispute. Co-operation and
unity of action among workers must be based upon knowledge of
fads and purposes. Only by word of mouth or by some device
VOTE AND WORK AGAINST REFERENDUM MEASURE No. 6
. EVERETT EUSINESS
MEN AND THE
LABOR SITUATION
In the op'nlen of the Everett Com
merc'.al Club our fair city is headed
btrail hi for the region of decayed
ami forgotten cities unless the "genus
labor agitator" is put to rout and the
"open shop" firmly established in all
its pristine splendor. At least one
would be led to believe so through
rending the oroakings and dire
prophecies emanating day by day
from lb* gentlemen who foregather at I
' Colby and Wall and faithfully chron
icled In the daily preßS of this city,
f As all this lamentation is the out
come of the Shingle Weavers' strike,
now In its * ixth month, it might not
be amiss to recall some of the events
of that struggle and the relation of
the Commercial Club thereto.
When, eighteen months ago, the
shingle manufacturers reduced the
scale of wages, they promised to re
store them when "business conditions
warranted." One year dragged by.
Shingle prices increased. Mills in
Other parts of the state, operating un
der similar conditions, restored the
scale. Everett manufacturers did not.
No protest from the Commercial Club,
the self-appointed guardian of the
business life of our fair city.
Failure upon the part of manu
facturers in Everett to keep their
h word, the Shingle Weavers struck.
And then the Commercial Club woke
m , Mr. Fn d X Baker, owner of one
of Everett's struck mills, was pres- :
--,,, ,„ l)f the Olub. This strike had to
be "investigated." Yes, sir! A com
mlttee was appointed to "investigate."
Did that eommltte interview shingle
reavers? "id it enquire into their
grievances! Not thai you could
* notice The committee "investigated"
-JO, neatness and dispatch and in a
Banner that would put to shame the
enmshoo methods of Nick Carter. It
'ported hack to the Commercial
' CIUB and the meeting Which heard
that report refused to hear the presi
dent of the International Shingle
Weavers' Union, who might reason
ably be supposed to know something
about the demands of the men and
Anti-Picketing Bill Proposed by Legislature Analyzed by
Thoughtful Men of Labor Movement
have some slight knowledge of manu
facturing conditions in general. The
club gravely acepted the report of the
committee and the Shingle Weavers
stood condemned as disturbers of the
industrial peace of the community.
And, by the way. When, last year,
certain Everett shingle mills posted
notices that in future every employe
must sign a paper to the effect that
he did not nor would not affiliate with
any labor union, did the Commercial
Club protest? It did not. Just what
.is an "open shop," anyway?
the strike dragged on. The mill
men were unable to break the ranks
of the strikers nor to obtain skilled
men in any appreciable number from
outside points. So they played the
old, old game, the one played in Colo
rado, in West Virginia, in Michigan,
in hundreds of industrial centers, in
times past, the trump card of beaten
employers. They imported gun men
and professional thugs. Feeling be
tween the strikers and these gentry
grew tense. That was natural. The
blow-up came when this band of thugs
"rushed" the picket line, and strikers
were severely beaten. Did the Com
mercial Club protest at the employ
ment of this type of men by the des
perate mill owners? It did not. When
the uniformed police occupied ring
side seats at this Saturday morning
melee and saw unarmed strikers
beaten into insensibility, did it pro
test? It did not. But when, a few
nights hiter, the strike-breakers were
paraded up the main street of Everett
in column formation as a taunt and
defiance to the strikers to "start
something." and as the very natural
result this defiance was accepted and
an encounter ensued, the Commercial
Club raised the battle cry of Law and
Order and flew to arms in defense of
the fair name of the city.
Not a union in th's city had a thing
to do with the arrival of members of
the I. W. W. Every union in the city
Charter! from the American Fed. ra
tion of Labor, believes in negotiation
and conciliation of disputes between
employer and employe, deprecates the
use of the strike save as a weapon of
last resort, Is composed of meu and
women who are home owners and tax
and the Constitutional Amendment
The Labor Journal
that appeals immediately to the eye, or by some advertising agency,
can workers or strikers disseminate quickly and effectively facts
and principles involved in their contest or the justice of their
demands upon employers.
"This proposed measure, which denies the workers the right
to maintain, carry or transport on any sidewalk, street, public
place or private property any banner, sign, transparency, writing
or printing, denies the workers of their most effective means of
getting facts before the public and for placing fellow workers in a
position to - decide intelligently upon their attitude toward the
strike or lockout. Employers under the law can secure publicity
for their contentions in an industrial dispute through newspapers
and other common agencies which find their way into tin 1 homes
and offices of many citizens. Through their economic power they
bar such agencies to the wage workers.
"To deny the wage earners the right to tell their story by
word of mouth in the streets, public highways or public places is
to deny them a right necessary to cany out the purposes of the
labor movement. There can he nothing illegal or wrongful in
securing a hearing for the facts in a strike. Therefore, as citizens
thejl have a right to use streets, sidewalks, public highways or
public places for this legitimate activity necessary lor furthering
the welfare of human beings."
FRANK MORRISON
Secretary American Federation of Labor
"I consider the proposed act as being a serious menace to the
freedom of the people of Washington, and 1 am glad to learn thai
it has been referred to the people of your state. * * * The
proposed anti-picketlng law would deny the workers of Washington
the right to carry on any sidewalk, street or public place, or even
upon private property, any sign, transparency, banner, any writing
or any printing which would disclose the cause of the strike or
lockout. The workers of Washington would be denied the most
effective means of getting facts and figures before the public, and
they would be unable to maintain any avenue of publicity so that
their fellow workers could be placed in a position to decide equally
and fairly what their attitude should be toward any strike or lock
out. There should be nothing illegal or wrongful in securing a
hearing for the facts in an industrial dispute or strike.
payers, whoso little all is staked on
the prosperity of the city. Yet the
Commercial Club must frantically en
deavor to Connect up the union move
ment of Everett with the Industrial
Workers of the World In the mind Of
the general public.
Waiving for the moment any argu
ment on the principle of the "open
shop," let us see how honest the Com
mercial Club members are In their
outburst. Gov. Clough doffs his hat
to the audience and declaims that
now and hereafter, world without end,
amen, the "open shop" shall prevail In I
the shingle mills or Everett. As if the
Shingle Weavers were asking for any
"closed shop.' When this strike was
called the weavers stated that they
were out for wages and for wages
only. That holds good today. To
morrow morning the weavers will de
clare the strike off if the shingle mills
of this city will agree to pay the
union scale of wages. They won't ask
for a single thing in the world except
the restoration of the wage scale
previously in effect. There has been
a Shingle Weavers' Union in Everett
since 1901. In all that time, save for
a period of sirteen months when they
operated under a trade agreement,
there has never been anything else
tut BJI "open shop" in the shingle
mills of Everett. This is not a diatribe
in favor of the open shop, but a plain
statement of facts as far its the
Shingle Weavers of Everett are con
cerned.
The Labor Journal is ready and:
willing at till times to discuss the
"open shop" question with all comers,
but at th's writing is more concerned
with other phases of this industrial
problem. As we have shown, so far
SS the Shingle Weavers are concerned,
it' Commercial Club sets up a straw
.man lebcled "open shop" and proceeds
to knock it over with its puny vapor j
;ings. Let it get all the glory out of'
Its won'v vie»ory it c*i
The Old Guard of the C. C. by In
ference i.sst rt that tudus i'iu . ,
perity can only come by breaking the
alleged "domination" of the city by
labor unions, It is admitted that
un'onism has always played a Strong
part in the Industrial life of Everett.
THE OFFICIAL PAPER OF THE
DEVOTED TO THE INTEREST
EVERETT. WASH., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1916
By E. P. MARSH, President Washington Federation of Labor
Through all the years of her history
the unions have been numerically
strong in Everett and i!ie city lias
been known far and "i i as a strung
union town. Car, any ty in the
West show a more rapid growth or
a more healthy one than lias Everett?
From a clearing in the woods a quar
ter of acentury ago, Evert 1 has grown
to be a great manufacturing city, a
city of beautiful homes, substantial
business blocks, schools and churches.
Probably no city in the West of equal
size can show a greater volume of
savings deposits. No manufacturing
city in the West has been freer from
labor disputes. Her work people have
been frugal, law abiding, home owning
and home loving. The magnificent
school systm of Everett is a tribute
to the sterling character of Everett's
work people, who build and maintain
them. We venture the assertion that
a larger percentage of Everett s union
ists own their homes than do the
members of the Commen lal Club who
are howling for the "open shop."
Not a business man in Everett but
owes his business existence to the
work people of Everett. If the work
man earns he spends, and again we
venture the assertion thai Everett's
unionists spend far more at home for
home products than does the Com
mercial club "open shopper."
High wages spell life to the mer
chant High wages do not come as a
I free gift to the workman, but as a
result of his organized effort, l'rove
it? How much more wages does the
average saw mill hand, unorganized,
receive today for his labor than he did
sixteen years ago, and how- much has
the cost of living advanced in thai
period? Find the answer to that
problem and you find the answer to
the whole labor problem
Bullied by a few domineering manu
facturers, who wrap the American
flag around them and (irate of patriot
ism while they howl for the "open
ihop," the Commercial Club aligns
Itself against organized labor. An
o'her group, styling itself a "real
estate association," but a part of the
first mentioned group, chants the re
fra'n. Now. fast on the heels of all
EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL.
OF ORGANIZED LABOR.
"All workers as public citizens should, of course, have an un
abridged tight to the use of the streets, public highways or any
public place on an equality with other citizens so that publicity
can be Riven to the cause of advancing human welfare. To deny
the wage etuners of Washington the right to appeal to their
neighbors and fellow citizens, or to state their grievances, is to
deny them one of the Imperative rights necessary to carry out
one of t!ie purposes of the labor movement. It is equivalent to
denying tin- freedom of speech, the freedom of association, and
even the freedom of locomotion.
"The anti-picketing bill proposed by the legislature of the State
of Washington only a serious, but an unwarranted invasion
of the rights and liberties of all the people of your state, ami
involves the destruction of principles of freedom that have always
been held dear by the people of the whole United Stairs."
E. W. OLSON
Ex-State Labor Commissioner of Washington
"This acl abridges the rights of citizenship, inasmuch as it
donics certain privileges that are granted by the constitution of
the United States under the Courteenth amendment, the principle
of which seems most pertinent to this measure, same being as
follows:
"'Section 1. * * * No state shall make or enforce
law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities
of citizens of the United States, nor shall any state deprive
any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process
of law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
ecjua 1 protection of the law.'
"That the liberty of our citizens will be seriously impaired if
this measure becomes law cannot be denied, inasmuch as its terms
are so sweeping that any person may be fined and imprisoned for
committing peaceful acts without any intention whatever of doing
harm or injury, and such acts have time and again been construed
by the courts of our land as being the sacred prerogative of our
Cit izellS.
'While it is true that labor disputes have arisen that have
Caused serious conflicts, and in instances hive resulted in violence
and loss of life and property, yet such circumstances do not justify
a permanent injunction by statute that Is so far-reaching as to
this outbursl comes a "jollification
meeting, addressed by an "open shop"
agitator from San Francisco, boasting
that they helped to rid the city of a
■
cleanse the city of till dangerous,
characters.
\\ hat would you have, gentlemen, a,
c'tv "where every man has the right
India, Russia, China, anywhere but in
the United States.
Toll the truth, gentlemen, and quit
masquerading under an open shop
banner. Only a condition under which
labor unions were buried fathoms
deep would suit you, and that is what
you would bring about if you could
—and dared.
A bitter feeling has been en
gendered between the laboring people
and big business interests in this city
which will take years to eradicate.
You can't wipe out unionism by "open
shop" declarations; you can't drive
home-owning, tax-paying people out of
the city. Greater Everett needs the
loyal co-operation of every citizen, be
he merchant, lawyer, doctor or la
borer. The seeds of enmity, hate and
discord are being sown in Kverett by
this senseless tirade by business men
who ought to be big enough and
broad enough to realize that you can't
kill the spirit of organization among
working men. What Kverett needs
right now is some broad gauged busi
ness men who would rise above this
small town stuff and tin kle this labor
problem in a broad way, realizing
that trade unionism is a logical part
!of our industrial development and it
needs to be encouraged to healthy
growth along sane channels, rather
than to hi' ruthlessly hunted and
harassed with a mow of estennlna
lion.
Karve) Thompson of Uie cooks sad
Waiters is on a hunting trip with DSJ
rington as a base.
The Fraternal Order of Eagles will
give a grand masque ball at F'ele
hall on Hallowe'en. Oct. It List of
prizes next week
restrain every citizen of our state from exercising a fundamental
privilege in a peaceful and orderly manner; an injunction so drastic
as to declare that any citizen through the performance of a peaceful
act in behalf of his own interest or in the interest of his fellow
is a criminal, thereby ignoring the inalienable rights given him by
the constitution of the United States.
"A mistaken idea prevails that a drastic law of this kind will
tend to minimize industrial disturbance. The contrary, however,
is true, as is evidenced by the lawlessness and anarchy that has
always followed industrial disputes in tin' states of Colorado and
West Virginia for some years past, and it is interesting to know
that both these stales have anti-picketing laws. The only other
slates in the Union having such a law is Alabama."
Legislative Agent Washington State Federation of Labor
"In any way you may view it, 1 liit? bill la unfair, unjust and
dangerous, if in the process of 'picketing,' speaking or publishing
in relation to labor troubles, working nun commit violence, there
is ample remedy at law for such acts. But to enact a statute which
denies to them the rights which ordinary judgment dictates to be
proper and necessary, amounts to an outrage thai might very
easily become a very real danger to the industrial peace of the
country. To deny men their natural rights promotes violence, not
peace and quietude. It is a physical impossibility to clamp down
a lid upon a community seething under oppression without causing
an explosion.
"The Washington legislature did not investigate or consider
this legislation. The b ! ll was hurriedly introduced and referred
to a hostile committee. No member of the labor movement was
permitted to be heard upon its merits. It was rushed through the
legislative mill with unseemly haste and in a hostile spirit. It is
the weapon of the tyrant, adopted by the methods of the tyrant,
and it is intended that it shall be used in that same way, if the
people sf the state can be induced, by gross misstatement of facts
and on appeal to prejudice, to vote the bill into a law of the state. '
Surely, after reading the above criticism of the proposed law
by men in the labcr movement of mature and sober minds, no
r : ght-thinkiiig, liberty-loving citizen of Washington will vote to
write it into the statutes of this progresisve state.
WAS IT A R!OT?
■
[Tnion eharced vii h Inciting no* on
that on ilu 1 n'ffht mentioned a party
of non-union men from the Jamison!
mill marched to the Everett theatre
f !
The martial array of the theatre
goers drew a crowd of striking
shingle weavers and h> slanders to
the scene and when the nonunion
men and scabs started on their return
to the mill a row took place, In which
quite a number of shingle weavers,
scabs, non-union men and others, in
cluding four policemen, took part.
It was brought out In the evidence
that on a former occasion a number
of shingle weavers were beaten in a
battle on the waterfront, in wh'ch
some of the witnesses for the prosecu
tion took an active part, according to
their own testimony. This first fitrht
apparently had something to do with
the afair on the night of the 2?th.
It was brought out in the testmony
juries more or less serous. It do
that two or three men received in
veloped that htere were three or four
shots fired, but nobod) was hit and
nobody knew who fired the shots
The question as to whether Mills
(the accused) was armed brought out
some conflicting testimony, due of
fleer said Mills was armed with a
2x4 and another officer said he had
something in his hand which looked
Ike a cane, but might have been S
billiard cue. Things do not always
look alike to all people, anyway
Witnesses for defense testified tha'
Mil's was not armed at all.
Mills was bound over to the Su
perior Court.
The singular thing about this affair
was that no one was arrested. Now.
what do you think of a r ! ot like that"
Note -In th s story distinction is
nsde between non-union men and
cabs A non-union man is one who
a tn vi r 1. longed to a union. A
In Organization
Lies the Hope
of Labor
H. L. HUGHES
A motion was passed that no mem
per Other than the secretary give any
stati mi nt for publication in any news
paper unless authorised by the
Council.
Several topics of interest to or
ganized labor were discussed at
ongtb.
Reports of Unions
The Cigar Makers reported business
good.
The Longshoremen reported that its
members are doing a little work.
The Machinists reported two initia
ions at its last meeting and nine in
he last six weeks.
The Plumbers had one initiation,
rohn Wutson of that union has re
urned from a three months' organize
iOD tour. He reports having accom
plished good work.
The Shingle Weavers report a mill
ipened at Mukilteo, then closed on ac
!oUnt of an announced cut in wages.
The Teamsters initiated two mem
en Tin sdaj night and two last week.
The Union was addressed by Mrs. S.
samuelson and Mrs Oahlager favor
ng Initiative Mo. 2 and against the
even r< f trend am measures.
The Lathers admitted one member
by card.
After a d'scus.-ion of the seven
•efereudum measures the Council ad
ourned.
eali is one who has belonged to a
union aad is now out of it for traitor-
KU conduct or violation of union
prine'ples
D>n Warner of the Cooks and
Waiters has gone to Index on a hunt
ing trip.
TRADES
COUNCIL
NE W S
No. 86
