1
i
i i
1 !
tr. TY1TT. v DONIPHAN, MIS3QUEIFRIDAYt OCTOBER 13, 1916. Npmbku
a?
ROUND ABOUT THE STATE.
Cleared from Exchanges-Made by the Shears,
the Pencil and tne rasie roioomo vB'- j
inaU Some Credited, and Some Stolen, I
but Nearly All Interesting Reading. j
" .......ttltntttttttltttttlUOff
I ...i j fn..Lf mnr lh thousand DODUlf
Even u some uniuwreu wu - . .
Hon and tne seoona lown in
The last of the original homes
that marked the town of Chari
ton on the Chariton river two
miles north of Glasgow, was de
stroyed by fire one night last
week. Chariton was platted in
181T, two years before a steam
boat had come up the Missouri
river, and at one time was a town
Prisoners in the Green eounty
jail at Springfield are all break
ing out-wlth ehioken po
The campaign Is on, and so are
the voters, says the Moberly In
dex with a significant wink.
Of ninety-eight motor cars sold
In Burlington Junotlon this sea
eon, sixty-five were of one make.
Joslah Collins, of Parnell, who
can do a regular first olass Job of
horse-shoeing at the age of flO,
is the oldest blacksmith and far
mer In Missouri. Mary villa Tribune.
The surviving members of tlie
band that participated in Quan
trell'i raids bald their annual re
union it Smithville last week.
There are but 25 members for the
meeting this year.
Pioking up The Star's head
line, "Kansas City Banks Chok
ed With Cash," the Four-County
Windsorlte says there have beeu
no deaths from strangling in that
neck of the woods.
' In the past five months Frank
Harlan who represents W. P.
Hall, has bought 699 head of
horses in Princeton says the Post.
For these animals he has paid
Mercer countains $100,000.
. Tf-fcr-,f ,rt.i in Harwood miss a"
certain buzzing sound in the town
they may attribute it to absence
nf tha Harwood Hummer whioh
has ceased to hum. The advano
ed oost of white paper did the
trick. .
An overall factory at Mountain
Grove is now something like four
hundred dozen behind in its or
ders with no appreciable decrease
in the demands of the trade.
With winter winds at hand, the
situation soon may bscome ser
ious. Dr. Delbert Claude Adoook, an
eye, ear and throat specialist of
Warrenaburg committed suioide
Wednesday morning in a oorn
field near his farm at Hiokman
Mills. Hs shot himself with a
rifle. The bullet entered his
heart.
Just how much more money
would buy the , horee, Martin
Hemry of Gallatin didn't say,
but when a Polo buyer raised an
offer of $900 to $1,000 Mr. Hem
ry shook his head and eayi he'd
, keep his fancy thoroughbred a
while longer.
The Rev. "W. G. Ball and wife
of King City celebrated this week
their fiftieth wedding anniver
sary. Dootor Ball has been i
minister sinee 1869 and in that
time has been pastor at sixteen
ohurohes of the St. Joseph Dis
trict Baptist Association.
A Lafayette county girt caught,
recently; with her bare hands, a
full grown fox whioh the family
- deoided to hold in captivity. The
fox was chained, but only over
night. Before morning it chew
ad its way out of a shed in time
to loot the ohioken ooop before
daylight. v
The Leeton Times insists 'that
Dr. W. C. Holt has found a pet
rified snake on his farm just east
of Leeton. The snake was found
lying crosswise in a ravine, only
part of ita body being visible.
The snaka was excavated and
found to be 85 feet long and
' abcut as big around the middle
as the upper part of a stove pipe.
An. still antnkar it Arkansas, an
iu- .m;u sourL The old house iuet burn
exonango U"'J I . ... 'L ' j
Boutheaef1 Missouri gete nowa- ed was or logs vim -
a.. - frnm Dame Fortune, veneer. U wae ouiu oy wiujuib
Tim- ... .h.n that nart of the Cabeen, a warm friend of Bena
state was referred to ae "Swamp- tor Benton's who for once at
. w. it .u a.. I least was his euest in the old
MM HI nilHHUUIl. UUH IUVQV I
are gone. Chariton mansion.
Indications of a big copper and There is a tombstone in Orient
oil strike in Polk county are re- cemetery at Harrison ville that
ported from Bolivar. According puzzles the local scientists. The
to renorts received two strikes tombstone consists of a pedestal
have been made on the farm of on which rests a ball of granite
Joe Brant, three-quarters of a two feet in diameter. With the
mile northwest of Bolivar. Cop- exception of the spot that rested
ner carbonate was found at . a on the podestal thi ball was given
depth of 875 feet in the first drill- a high polish. Now the ball has
ing and pure oopper at a depth turned until the unpolished epot
of 415 feet. has moved about one-sixtylourth
w -,u.. ,w i of thedistanoe of the complete
. L. i i u a.. n, v ciroie. a narriaonxniw ""-
C. Bottom Produce Cj., of Kan
sas City, and will deliver them to
. i . ti J Tl ia aqII.
me rauroau " -, .. ... -. mi... B
mated the orchard will make w-k--
about 25,000 bushels this year, P1 ,n "u"u"u
but ae the fruit was damaged Dy Another argument in smoking
hail early In the season it will be , , b . Futon gun
shipped mostly in bulk. Skid- (n ft Cf)umbia inoident. A Slater
more News. in rntnmhia as a wit
1 IUBII W -w
Th. Rk Ph.FiM. Mo., hiirhwav ness in a law suit. While sitting
km. ih. onlv o-eneral traffio in front of the Boone county
etructure epanning the IMiesourl oourthouse smoking his pipe
river near there, waa destroyed wagon paeiing in inriirny."
by fire Friday causing a loss ee- over a cartridge, exploding it.
tim.ud at from $175,000 to $400.- The ball from the oartridgeelruok
wi rru. hniit in the nine, loosening two of the
1904 at a cost of $750,000 and was Slater man's teeth, then defied
nn.lmlf trila lone. The road- log harmlessly. Had he not been
i.!k f h.u Hmhiira amokinof he micht have been
,BBimvad erilirelv. killed, argues the Sun. As
. . . ..J matter of f aot, had lie not been
If the ooins could oe nanaieu
Jzs3 Kortcd Refoed to Be led Back Into
I tz RepdHcn Party After Unspaifagly Ccn
I hri and (iitickhg It as a Member
. cf tb Haticaal Progressive Pkt-
forn Committee in 1912.
matioian ascertained the exaot
hour the monument was set and
by his computations deolares the
at a profit, a Springfield drug
smoking he probably would not
have been Billing on the steps
autside the courthouse
Recently an old man named
Jeremiah C.Robertson oame to
Greene county in order to identi
fy himself, where he learned lhat
f; ,. '" ' 11 I
" la a nuuterfol ipch 4ellTrd b
trt tkoasands at tl Bute rair r
Mnti7, Judge Mortoai woqumur
earneatly tare Ms rtoni tor me-
BorUna Preewent wuaon in yiw
eat eampaiss. He ipoka In pan aa
toliowa: I
I am not a Republlean, nwther am I
Democrat I oom as a Prof riuve.
am apeaUnf tbl year tor preoliely
tba aama principle and policies I
Supported four ream ago. A friend of
Kiln tald to me: "You bare obanced
rr pollUca." 1 said, "No. I continue
a Profreaalve and Intend to par
ticipate wltn otnere in we nor-
taniaaUon of tne rrogreiaiTe pnj
the future." My caie la similar to
that of tbe Indian wbo waa dlecoTered
wandering in tbe woods by a friendly
frontiersmen. The frontiersman aald
to tbe Indian: "Are you lostr And
tha Indian replied: "No; Indian ne
Kt; wigwam lost" This la my sit-
4 SWT .
' - i'
' T ' -fl 1
' -Ma'.
JUDGE ALBERT D. NOBTONL
firm feels that it oould establish
a "nickel department" and do a
wholesale businees. At one time
recently, eays . the Republican,
the store banked $528 in 5-cent
piece?, and for the "jitneys" to
. ... i oa -
aocumuiave .ua- ws - eupp08edly deserted
$40 day is qu ite the ord nary ch.fdren;
uiu.g r . n .h-.i.t daild manv years:
Gentry county's oldest rest- his ife had married again and
dent, Johnathan Dorsey, dieu Was living in BoutliUreenneia ana
September 17 at the age of nin- bad a son by her second mar
ety-eight years. He kad lived riage 45 years old. This is the
in the county sixty years and for gtory Mr. Robertson telle: That
the past ten yeara had been blind, after the war when he returned
The honor of being the oldest to his Greene county home from
man in the county now belongs the Union army be received
to JohnKurtright, of Evona, who warning letters telling him to
! four months younger than Mr. leave. He refused to go until
Dorsey whose home was near Al- one day some one shot at him,
bany. the bullet grazing his head. He
.l! l...... . immediately left on horsebaok,
Away pan. m . sur, wou,d fof
T) Annnfu fAnllnnal. fliVR1 thai I
Butler Record, there was a ticket
known as tbe "Chain Omg" lio
ket and another known as the
"Tadpole" tioket, . The ; whole
ticket got together and ma Je one
grand tour of the bounty a short
ume oeiora bi-ouu... -nuntv. Texan, married
It aoaulred the name of . ..., . .
her and the children as soon as
he oould find a borne. The first
he remembers after this is that he
found himself on a horse going
south with his, memory of the
past entirely gjne and a strange
euit of clothes on. He went to
way
"Chain Gang." j The Record
never learned bow the "Tad
poles" got their name.
Judge Bob Moorehead, of
again and raised a family of 16
children.' He found discharge
papers in his pocket and suppos
ing they were his took tha name
oontained and passed under it
Brunswick bad some oorn to sell until recently when his memory
and was lubky in that particular came back and then he started
aa well as esoaDinir contact with but to fix up the tangles. The
a rattle snake in the oorn. Tues- tale ia rather loud to tell a Mia
day of last week-he delivered a sourian but as we have no way of
load of oorn to the elevator and getting at the truth of the matter
when the oorn was, dumped a big I we will have to take the old man a
rattler was seen wriggling down word for it. Lawrenoe Chieftan
with the oorn. The oorn passed
through a shelter and also the
snake and along with the oobe
tha snake landed outside, alive
and aotive and was killed. Bos-
worth Sentinel.
"Rousfh On Rata" ends Rats,
Mice, Bugs, die out doors, unbeatable
eitorminator. Used World Over, by
U S. Oorernment too. Eooaomy Site
ZSc. or loo, Drug and country stores
Refuse substitutes. Free. Comic pic
ture R.-E. S. Wells, Jersey City. N.J
nation precisely, while the home and
some others are lost tor the time
being.
Acting upon principle, I separated
from the Republican and participated
In the organisation of the ProgTenslTe
party because my conscience forbade
that I should longer affiliate with tb
party used as an instrument oi gov
ernment in behalf of large Interests
enjoying special privileges at tbe ex
pense of the whole people. The move
ment for a new party not only ap
pealed to my Judgment, but It arouaod
an enthusiasm within me to a degree
which I had never before experienced.
I waa chairman of the first state con
ventlon In Mlnsourt and with the la
nantiHl Col. Nelson of the Kansas City
i Star attended the national convention
, u dnleiate-at-larice. At Chicago 1
was made a member or toe committee
on platform and co-labored with the
excellent men of that body formulat
Ing what I regard as the greatest deo
laratlon of principles and policies
given forth by any political assein
bum or Br oar. un uij rmuiu w
Missouri I was unanimously chosen as
the candidate of the new party for
Governor, and after a abort campaign
of the state we polled 125.000 votes.
Many of us were entirely sincere and
embraced the cause for the better
ment of conditions generally with
lofty motives and purity of purpose. J
waa one of this number and believed,
for I was given to so understand, that
we were engaged in building a per
manent party that should go forward
and upward in the task of reclaiming
tha nnnra of government from tbe
great Interesta of the country, and
lodging them again In the hands of all
the people, where they Justly reside,
tn our contract with the people we
not only declared our purpose not to
further aid tbe continuance of Invisi
ble government In Ha maneuvering!
through such men as Penrose, Smoot,
Barnes, Crane, Guggenheim and oth
ers, but we solemnly agreed to de-
ikmu it that tha oeoole's govern
ment might be administered by and
for them.
Havina enlisted In this splendid
cause. L for one, was politically happy
for tbe first tmie in my life, and this,
too, though it was well understood
that we would not be able to come
into oftlce and nower until tbe old Re
publican machine was completely de
stroyed and the new party established
on the ruins of the old. but in accord
with the spirit of Lincoln. All of us
shared tbe promise that the "men and
women- thus gatnerea lugomci
"would never be abandoned." It may
be regarded as certain, according tc
the thought of candid persons every
where, that those of ua wbo affiliated
with the new nartv la good faith were
Justified In believing, at least, that
we would not be abandoned on ths
very center of the field when the flag
waa floating high and the bugle call
hut sounded. But. be this aa it may
the fact speaka for Itself. History
Here l found myself a political or
phan, recognising no obligation to any
party bo) owing an allegiance to my
country which, according to con
science, compels me to function, aa
citisen somewhere and somehow.
It ia obvious that the same crowd ol
reactionary leaden constitute ths
works of the Republican party now at
before. In 112 these men were forced
to steal delegatea to control the Re
publican convention, and in 1918, ths
Progressives having moved out, they
controlled the situation witnout oppo
sition, for all were of one accord. In
this situation it devolved upon then
to nominate a candidate who would
appear to be Progressive in order to
consummate the plan so manifestly
pre-arranged to destroy the Progres
sive party and seise, almost as by
force, its membership to be utilized In
rehabilitating the old Republican or
ganisation to tbe end that the invisi
ble government may again be secure
in its place and the army of office
holders once more be triumphantly in
sulted in authority. In this view, Mr.
Hughes waa Introduced with much ac
claim, not aa a progressive, but as an
anti-boss candidate. Is It thought for
a moment that Barnes, Penrose, Crane,
Bmoot and others, who controlled the
Republican convention this summer,
would accept a Progressive! If so,
then why did not Cummins or some
others of that school fare better T
Everyone who meditates upon It
knows that these men understand the
fundamental distinction lies in the
mental atutude in respect to the
rights of property and the rights of
men. The Progressives believe in the
principle declared In the Declaration
of Independence to the effect that all
men are created tree and equal, and
aa such are possessed of certain in
alienable rights, among which are
those oi lite, liberty and the tmrcult
of happiness, and that it is the chief
office of government to secure ana
protect these. Tbe other school of
thought adheres to tbe old Tory doc
trine or aristocratlo view tnat prop
erty and wealth accord a special priv
ilege to the owner and a special right.
Emanating from this fundamental dis
tinction in the two schools of thought,
there arises every day and hour of our
existence a conflict between the right
of humanity on the - one hand and
those of property on the other. Mr.
Lincoln, whose spirit dominated the
Republican party at one time, stood
for the rights of humanity as against
those of property; and this, too, was
the doctrine of Thomas Jefferson. So
it was the Progressive platform of
Kit employed the names of these
two great friends of the people con
junctively In declaring our doctrine.
Such alone was the great fundamental
of the Progressive movement, and the
matter of the opposition to bosses and
boss control was but a mere incident
In the flaht for human rights, and this
because the crooked special Interests
which seek to control the govern
mental agencies in the interesta of
nronertr first and relegate human
rlshts to the second place usually at
tain their ends througn tne activity or
the bosses who acquire political power
for the purpose oi financial rewara.
GOV. iiugnes opposea
headlines tn the Chlcaso Tribune, tha
leading atandpat Republican organ of
the west, la satisfactory to Wall
Street. Far be it from me to even
suggest that Mr. Hughes la not an
honest man. The point of the matter
la that, even though honest, he Is a
creature of the environment in which
be developed. A typical New Yotk
lawyer, who won his way in the mart
of big business, he Uvea, and moves
and baa his being as big" business lives
and moves and has its being. The
same Is true, on the other hand, of ,.
one who comes from the slums. He is
a creature of his environment, and Ms
mental attitude partakes from those
sources-and is fixed by the circum
stances and customs surrounding his
development. How frequently In the
history of the country have we seen .
bonest men who have served the rail
roads, for instance, for 20 years as ,
counsel, been elevated to the fedaral
bench and in the trial of a casa In
court hew frequently the country ob-;
serves and candid perxons complain '
that such Judges, though honest, can
see with clear vision the railroad's
view of the case and are positively
dull to the side involving the interests
of society as a whole. This is because
of the environment in wnicn one nas
developed rather than from fault "
But, though such be true, the evil re
sult Is the same, for, while such a
Judge may be regarded as safe and
sane by those special interests, the
vision Is a narrow one when regard .d
from the standpoint of all the people.
So It Is we find Mr. Hughes satisfac
tory to Wall Street, because his men
tal attitude Bquares with the view of
big buslnoss rather than the Progres
sive view that this country belongs to
the people who Inhabit it, and that
they have a right to control its affairs
und enjoy the full measure oi the
rights declared in the Declaration of
Independence.
Although the contest for hum1
rights has been waging in the country
for several years past, the records
disclose that Mr. Hughes has not even
boon sufficiently interested to cast ula
vote for six years, and though he now,
as 100 per cent candidate, declares he
favors the suffrage tor the women, It
appears he wai not sufficiently Inter
ested to cast his vote In the election
In his state on this vital question of
human rights. Over against this we
see President Wilson, the progressive,
a man whose kindly, sympathetic men
taj attitude Is as different from that
of Mr. Hughes aa waa that of Abra-
ham Lincoln from men of the eharao
ter.of Penrose and Barnes. Mr. Wil
son always vote, and, though con- ,
stantly engaged with his huge legisla
tive DroEram. and in steering the
ship of state midst the flaming waves
of war on every hand so as to main
tain the happiness of bis country, at
least found time to go to his state and
give his vote on the side of human
rights toward enfranchising the wom
en of New Jersey. Indoed, on looking
into the matter I discovered Mr.
Hughes' mental attitude to bo that of
tbe reactionary type,' while Mr. Wil
son Btood as a progressive.
There Is a dual leadership In both ol
the old political partlea. liarnea,
rose, Crane, Smoot and ollieru, wuo
duininute and control the Ktpublicia
party orsanitation, it Is well known,
are in alliance with the big buwuess
Interests oi tiie country, to couacrve
and protect them at all" hazards, not
withstanding the interests ol the plain
people. On the other hand, there aro
certain gentlemen in the Ktpuullcun
party, such as Senators LaFolleUe,
Cumuilns, Kenyan, Clapp and othera,
who represont the Progressive view
and frequently stand, when a comliot
of interest arises between the riiliia
of humanity and those of property, on
the side of the' people. But the old
reactionary crowd controls the K
publican party as an lnHruitnt of
government There la not ana mure ,
Vtvtsaaslaa that
Boss Barnes, and still he appears as a j can be no aiBiincuou na i w. u-
reactionary rather than aa a Progres
sive. Gov. Hiignes veioea tne iwo
oent fare law In the populous state of
New Tork, where more persons nae
on the railroads thsn in any other
four states in the Union. And this,
too, on mere opinion that it waa con
fiscatory In that it oiminisnea ine
earnings of property, and without an
investigation as to the fact, though
the rights of men and women who
paid the raUroad fares were involved
aa well He also vetoed the law fix
ing the salary of women teachers who
performed the like services aa men,
although the matter of human rights
was Involved and the elemental pre
nents of social Justice called aloud for
vindication. Likewise, he vetoed the
full-crew bill in the Interests of the
railroad properties, though Its opera
tion lessened the burden of the tollers
and rendered more secure the lives of
those In transportation,
In the view that it la the office of
government to protect property, the
enlightened opinion of the oountry has
long since settled upon the, proposi
tion in favor of an income tax, for it is
proper that one who possesses a large
income, say representing a million,
whether in property or genius, should
contribute more to the support of the
nvnrnment which protects htin in ita
enjoyment than the man of leiser
means who really enjoys but a slight
measure of protection regarded with
mrfarnnce to his meager portion. The
Congress passed and submitted to the
state legislatures tor ratification the
Income tax amendment ana uov.
Hughes sent a message to the legisla
ture of bis state in opposition to it,
and In this he advanced reasons com
monly put forward by the big business
and reactionary crowd, William Barnes
and othera. The position thus aa-
wlU record and characterise it. as; . . . Drot)erty nd
chairman of the "f""5uSt inimical to the rights of humanity at
I wai present at the passing or tne n(J WM
p.rty-.nd witnessed it with solemnity SuSSSXJZ
and sadnesa similar in degree to tbs . that Mr.
feeling of happiness experienced at iU gjj ,ala Vwntly Jb flaPl?f
esty and high purpose of the men and
women woo conRiuuie wo unuuci
ship of the Republican party, the Dem
ocratic party, the Progressive and oth
er parties, in speaking of political
parties we Intend only the party as ,
used as an instrument oi goveruuiem;
that 1b, through which good people are
affiliated together, following alter oue
leuderaliip or another in whatever di
rection those leaders may lead, ac
cording to their bent of mind. There
are likewise two leaderships In the
Democratic party. Charles F. Mur
phy of Tammany Hall and others rep-,
resent the same Interests In the Dem-'.
ocratlc party as do those f.rst named
in the Republican party, while Presi
dent Wilson and those who co-operate
with him represent the Progressive
view. At the moment, however, it ap-;
pears that the old reactionary crowd
is in control of the Republican party,
and dictates Its policies and affairs,
while Mr. Wilson and those who ad
here to his views dominate the Demo
cratic party; that Is to say the pro
gressive element of the Democratic
party is clearly in the ascendancy and
directs the course of the party aa an
Instrument of government under the
leadership of Mr. Wilson. As evi
dence of this It is ncccjsary to do no
more than cite the progressive legis
lative accomplishments of Democracy
under Mr. Wilson's leadership.
One of the leading features of the
Progressive platform in 1912 was our
plank demanding a revision of the cur
rency ana nanaing mwa u as w muu
duce a degree of elasticity In the mat
ter of our currency. Under the old
banking law the money wns gotten
out of the treasury by men who had a
certain character of bondi to deposit
therefor, under the pretext of moving
the crops a time or two each year. Aa
a rule, some IS to 20 New York fi
nanciers controlled the securities es
catial to dra the currency from the
(Continued on last pagf)
