VOL. 23
..
,/f
NO. 32
LOCAL ELEVEN EXPECTS HARD
GAME-WILT, PLAY AT THE
FAIR GROUNDS
At the fail' grounds, tomorrow after
noon, the local high school football
squad will play the Brainerd high school
learn. The game will begin at the usual
time.
An Interesting contest is anticipated,
as Brainerd is ver.v anxious to win from
the locals. These two highs have been
close rivals in the athletic sphere for a
number of years, but in the last couple
of years Little Falls has had the edge
tm the up-river town. Coach Liljedahl
lias not decided upon the lineup for the
locals but they will probably line up
the same as in the game with Aitkin, ex
cept that Levin is expected to be back
in the game tomorrow. He had his
shoulder dislocated in the game with the
alumni three weeks ago.
A week from Saturday the local high
plays St. Cloud high here and the fol
lowing week they go to Brainerd for a
return game.
REV. WATSON TO ORTONVILLE—
REV. SERVICE TAKES HIS PLACE
Rev. John Watson, who has been in
charge of the Methodist Episcopal
church of this city for the past two years
or more, leaves today for Ortonville,
where he will take charge of the M. E.
rlmrcb. At the M. E. conference held at
Wadena. last week lie was changed to
Uonville. A new church to cost $30,000
or more is to be erected at that place
and Rev. Watson was considered by the
conference as the one who would be best
suited to have charge of the work there.
He will preach his first sermon there
Sunday. Mrs. Watson will remain here
for a tew clays' visit at the C. O. Bran
n-n home.
Rev. PI B. Service, who has been at
Princeton for the past five years, has
been assigned to the local church and
1M- will preach his first sermon here Sun
day.
At Royalton a change has also been
made. Rev. Galbraith, who has been in
charge of the M. E. church there for
some time, will go to Parker Lake and
liis place will be taken by Rev. M. \V. S.
IVrry.
MUSICAL ART CLUB
Fully three hundred people attended
tlie opening program of the season of
he Mu.aical Art club, given at the high
school auditorium Tuesday evening, by
the IVtfcPhail String Quartet of Minneapo
lis. This quartet gave a splendid program
of musical selections, including quartet
numbers, violin numbers by Mr. Met-nail
and cello numbers by Carlo Lischer. Miss
Ebbie Leonora Nortlgarden, reader, also
added to the pleasure of the evening
with a number of readings.
Just before the program started a very
brief business session was held to elect
a secretary in place of Mrs. Ed. M. La
Fond, who resigned. The name of Mrs.
T. J. Matliieson was presented by the
nominating committee and she was
unanimously elected to that office. Mrs.
B. Burton, president of the club, gave a
few brief remarks and made some an
nouncements.
After the program an informal recep
tion was held in the high school gymna
sium for the members find guests. Mrs.
F. G. Ruth, assisted by seve-al other
dies, being in charge.
RECEIVES WORD FROM RELATIVES
St. Cloud Journal-Press: A registered
letter, the first for some time, reached
Judge .1. B. Himsl, this morning from a
cousin who lives at Linz on the Danube.
The letter says that conditions are good
and that the stories of food shortage are
grossly exaggerated. He says that all
kinds of food can be purchased though
naturally the prices have nearly been
doubled.
Thoufcb a number of brothers of the
write* of the letter are serving with the
German army none have as yet lost their
lives and only one is a prisoner. The
one in in a Russian prison camp,
youngoj- brother after serving on the
Galicia, Italian and Trentina fronts is
now on the Kaertner front.
The letters says the crops were excel
lent exoept in a few places where hail
storms were disastrous.
BOSTON WINS CHAMPIONSHIP
Boston won the fifth and deciding game
in the national baseball championship
series yesterday afternoon, getting the
victory by a score of 4 to 1. Boston won
the other three games 6 to 5, 2 to 1 and
6 to 2. The score in the game Brooklyn
won was 4 to 3. The game which Bos
ton won by a score of 2 to 1 went 15
innings, and was a record game in cham
pionship contests.
Marlisf John has taken a "position at
the Pawtzke Bros., grocery store.
Miss Ada Lindahl returned Tuesday
evening from a visit with her sister, Mrs.
V. J. Anderson of Storm Lake, la., and
with friends at St. Paul. She was gone
a week.
A number of local men who are mem
bers of the Woodmen lodge, went to St.
Cloud yesterday to attend a big Wood
men meeting, at which the national of
ficers were to be present.
Torkel Peterson of the West side had
a deep gash cut in his right arm yester
day morning, by a circle saw at the saw
mill, where he is employed. It required
several stitches to close the cut.
Mr. and Mrs. John Vertin and son Mark
were at St. Cloud Tuesday to attend the
wedding of Miss Hilda Louise Kropp,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Carl Kropp of
that cily to John Charles Kopriva.
Congressman C. A. Lindbergh has re
turned from San Louis Obispo, Calif.,
where he visited his daughter, Mrs. Lo
ren B. Roberts, for several weeks. He
states that his daughter is very ill now.
Mr. and Mrs. Theo. Huebner of Glyn
don were in the city Sunday for a visit
with Mrs. Huebner's sister, Mrs. Fred
Woehlert, en route to Rochester, where
the latter was to submit to an operation.
A surprise party was given for Miss
Marjorie Artonowski of the West side,
at her home, Thursday evening of last
week. Games and music furnished the
entertainment and a splendid lunch was
served.
A farewell party will be given for Rev.
and Mrs. John Watson at the M. E. par
lors tonight. The party will also be in
the nature of a reception or welcome for
Rev. E. B. Service, the new pastor of
the church.
Work has been commenced at the Hen
nepin paper mill here on the installation
of two new 350-horsepower boilers and
a concrete smokestack that will be 135
feet in heighth. Several changes are also
being made in the machine rooms.
STUDENT LOST LIFE WHILE HE
WAS IN BATHING USING AN
ELECTRIC VIBRATOR
St. Cloud Times (11): Attorney Hubert
Hansen of St. Cloud has been awarded a
judgment in the sum of J5.000 for the
death of his son, John H. Hansen, at
Creighton college, South Omaha, Neb.
This is the announcement conveyed in
the last number of the Creighton Cour
ier, a small newspaper printed by the
college students.
The announcement of the judgment is
brief. It states that the amount was
awarded the father. John H. Hansen
was a student in the college of law at
the institution.
According to the information given out
at the time he lost his life at the college
last winter, while taking a bath he used
an electric vibrator. Although there was
not usually a heavy current of electricity
in the wire it is presumed that it was
either due_ to an excess or the fact that
lie was in the water at the time and
the further fact that his heart was weak
and was unable to stand a shock.
Whether or not a suit was ever brought
in the matter was not stated in the pa
per but it states that a judgment was
given.
HWH VS. BRUEin fOHOtBOW I JS.OW FN SON'S KflH DOK OF CfPf COUNCIL 10 CURT OWN OKIMHCE
ST. CLOUD S NEW HOTEL SAID TO
BE NEARER NOW
The purchase of an additional lot by
the Cold Spring Brewing company oil
Tenth avenue between St. Germaine and
First street north, St. Cloud, is taken by
the people of that city as an indication
that a new up-to-date and thoroughly
modern hotel will be constructed there
within the next year. The plans are
practically completed for a big building,
modern every respect, and Minneapo
lis hotel people are ready to assume
charge.
TRINITY CHURCH RECTOR IS TO
PREACH HE£I0 SUNDAY
Reverend William Wilkinson of Trinity
church of New York City, who is known
in that city as "The Bishop of Wall
Street" because of his almost daily prac
tice of preaching from the steps of busi
ness buildings on that street, will be in
this city Sunday and will preach at the
Church of Our Saviour in the morning
at the Harvest Thanksgiving service.
PRIESTS TO HOLD CONFERENCE
Bishop Busch of St. Cloud has an
nounced that conferences for the priests
will be held regularly under the presi
dency of the bishop of the four districts
into which the dioceses is to be divided.
The first one will be held at St. Cloud
cathedral Tuesday, Nov. 7, the second
at Sacred Heart church here, Nov. 14,
the third at Morris Nov. 21 and the fourth
at Wadena Nov. 28.
"CIVILIZATION" AT VICTOR NEXT
WEEK
The photoplay "Civilization."- said to
be even greater than "The Birth of a
Nation," will be shown at Victor theatre
here next Friday and Saturday, Oct. 20
and 21. A big orchestra accompanies the
picture and the music is especially ar
ranged for this picture. The prologue is
acted by real actors.
FT. RIPLEY STORE BURNED
Harry Gasket's restaurant, confection
ery and billiard parlor at Ft. Ripley was
destroyed by fire early Monday morning,
entailing a loss of about $1,500. Practi
cally no insurance w.»s carried on it. C.
B. Clouse of Ft. Ripley was the owner
of the fixtures, F. Huimont owned the
building, and Gaskel owned the stock.
GOOD POTATO CROP FOR THIS YEAR
Potatoes are said to be generally a
poor crop this year. This statement, how
ever. does not agree with the yield in
the David Moran field in Belle Prairie.
He planted seven acres, but two acres
were lost by flooding. The other five
acres he says wil yield him between 800
and 900 bushels. At the present price of
90 cents the crop gives an excellent pro
fit.
ROOT MADE RETAIL ASSN. HEAu
Geo. H. Root, who formely resided
here, was elected president of the Min
neapolis Retail association at a dinner
held at the West Hotel in that city last
Tuesday evening.
The Luther league of the Swedish Lu
theran church will give a local talent
concert at the church this evening at
8 o'clock. All are invited to attend.
The remains of Elijah Bryant of Min
neapolis, a former resident of this city,
were brought here Monday for-'^,5rment.
Mr. Bryant passed away on Thursday
of last week. Mrs. J. Bryant and son
Walter, accompanied the remains here.
Otto Ivinzer of Minneapolis, who was
formerly employed with the Water Pow
er company of this city, was in the city
for a visit with friends the first of the
week. Mr. Ivinzer is now with the West
ern Union Telegraph company at Min
neapolis.
Miss Pearl Longley returned the first
of the week from a visit in the twin
cities. Miss Longley will be engaged as
instructor at teachers' institutes to be
held in North Dakota this fall and will
hold the first one at Carrington in the
near future.
Chas. E. Vasaly, of the state board of
control, was in attendance at the Am
erican Prison association convention
held at Buffalo, New York, this week, he
being chairman of the reorganization
committee. Mrs. Vasaly accompanied him
on the trip.
The ladies of the S'acred Heart church
will give a bazaar and supper at Maurin's
hall Wednesday, October 18. Tickets are
25 cents. The proceeds will go toward
installing a new heating plant at the St.
Aloysius parochial school. All are in
vited to attend.
Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Creamer, who have
land near Brownsville, Texas, were here
the first of the week for a visit with
Carl Bolander. who also has land in that
vicinity. Mr. Creamer stated that he used
the auction method in disposing of some
land there recently and that he sold it
for $S5 per acre, which he considered a
very good price for it.
Wm. Beveridge, who has been thresh
ing near Tower City, N. D., returned
Wednesday. He says the crops were very
poor, some of the yields not paying for
the threshing bill. During his two
months stay there his machine and crew
put in about one-half time.
F. E. Hall, N. J. Peterson, F. ±i. Phil
brick and L. O. Wessel are at Lake
Traverse this week, hunting small game
and fishing. They left here Saturday
going to Leech' lake, but the game was
scarce there and they went tj Lake Tra
verse. They will not return until about
the middle of next week.
«. ,. -i *i
ORDER IN STREET LIGHT ON NINTH
STREET NORTHEAST—TABLE
SEVERAL MATTERS
A regular adjourned meeting w.-is he'd,
at the city hall Monday evening by Che
city council, Aldermen Moeglein, Blo.k^,
Brown, Falk, Johnson, John, LiFoni
and Farrow being present.
A resolution was passed assessing the
cost of the construction of the new walk
on Fourth street southwest to the prop
erty owners along said street, where, .ne
walk was put in l^y the city.
Alfred Molde "and O. W. Carlson of
Broadway West were granted permits
to construct cement sidewalks in front
of their residences.
City Treasurer Vertin's second quar
terly report was read and was referred
to the finance committee for inspection.
A petition from residents along Fourth
street southwest, where a new cement
walk was recently constructed, asking
that certain property owners along said
street be compelled to put in curbs, was
laid on the table. Cit^ Attorney Cam
eron stated that the curb could not le
gally be ordered in now as it was strick
en out of the original order.
N. N. Bergheim, chairman of the elec
tric light rate committee, informed the
council that the committee had expected
to be ready to report that evening, but
that another meeting would be necessary
and therefore the report probably would
not be ready until .the next meeting of
the council.
T. C. Gordon of the Water Power com
pany stated that it was his intention,
had the light rate report been presented
at this meeting, to ask the council to
give the proposed Water Power com
pany's franchise extension its first read
ing, and it could then be brought up forj
discussion at future meetings. However,
as the light rate committee was not
ready to report he said he preferred to
have it left until after such report is
made, so that the new schedule of rates
could be incorporated in the proposed
franchise, if so desired. He said he was
willing to wait until the next meeting,
which will be held next Wednesday eve
ning.
A petition by a number of residents of
Ninth street northeast, for a 100-watt
mazda lamp at the corner of Ninth street
and Third avenue northeast,' was grant
ed. It was pointed out that this light
is badly needed. This is the first street
light that the council has ordered in
stalled for three years.
Alderman Brgwn of the building com
mittee reported that he had investigated
the matter of the construction of a con
crete underground coal bin for the city
library and that he estimated it would
cost about $240 for a concrete bin lSxlS
feet and feet deep. A bin this size
would hold about twenty tons of coal, he
said. The space in the library basement
is very limited and in order to get the
benefit of the cheaper price on coal it
must be purchased by the carload, which
quantity there is not room for in the
basement. Some of the aldermen said
that they believed the total cost of such
a bin. including the cost of advertising
for bids, etc., would exceed $300 and they
said they believed this amount could be
expended to better advantage. Upon
motion by Alderman Farrow the matter
was laid on the table.
Adjournment was then taken to Octo
ber 18.
MARRIED
A quiet wedding occurred Wednesday ?.t
the home of Mr. and Mrs. John F. Pot
ter of Spruce Place, Darling^ when their
daughter. Miss Marietta, became the
bride of Willis A. Murphy of Minneapo
lis. The wedding took place at high
noon. Rev. John Watson of the M. E.
church of this city officiating. Only im
mediate relatives were present and the
couple was unattended. The home was
prettily decorated with autumn leaves
for the occasion. The bride wore a dress
of white satin with Irish point overlace.
A luncheon was served at the home of
Mrs. John Mausolf of Fish Lake after
the ceremony and bridal couple then
motored to Little Falls, from where they
continued on their honeymoon.
The bride has been with the Minnea
polis Garden club, an organization back
ed by the Minneapolis Tribune, for the
past six years. The groom is the son of
J. G. Murphy of Minneapolis. He is a
graduate of Nebraska university and of
an Omaha conservatory of music.
Mr. and Mrs. Murphy will be at home
after October 15 at 1500 Park Avenue,
Minneapolis.
Misses I. ^avson and Mary McGregor,
students at the local Western Union of
fice, leave tomorrow for Minneapolis,
where they expect to secure positions
with the company.
O. M. Jerue, state deputy for the Mac
cabee lodge, who has been here for sev
eral weeks getting new members, left
Wednesday for Big Lake, where he will
put in a class. Mr. Jerue added over
thirty-five new members to the local
lodge.
A party was given at the J. H. Van
Loon home Wednesday afternoon in hon
or of Marjorie and Clifford Engler, who
are visiting at the Van Loon home. About
twenty guests were present and a very
pleasant evening was spent. Dainty re
freshments were served.
County Attorney C. Rosenmeier and
Sheriff Paul Felix were at Motley Mon
day in connection with a case before
Justice Newcomb. A Cass county man
was charged with petit larceny and was
found guilty and sentenced to pay a fine
of $30 and costs, amounting to $55, or
spend 60 days in jail. He paid the fine
and costs.
Chas. H. Shepard of Spokane, Wash,
who formerly resided here, has been pro
moted to the position of manager of the
Spokane branch of the American Type
Founders company, with which concern
he has been employed for a number of
years. Mr. Shepard's father was for
merly superintendent of the mill of the
Hennepin Paper company of this city.
Mrs. Josephine Reynolds left Wednes
day for a visit at Minneapolis, after
having spent several months at the P. F.
Hosch home. Mrs. Reynolds, who is a
sister of the late Mrs. Hosch, is a train
ed nurse and she took care of her sister
during the last few months of her ill
ness. She is not certain where she will
go to from Minneapolis. She came here
from Tacoma, Wash.
E. A. Kling returned Wednesday e\'
ning from St. Paul, where he attended
Grand Chapter of the Masons, which
was in session three days. Monday, Tues
day and Wednesday. He was to have
gone to St. Cloud yesterday to attend an
M. W. A. meeting, and at which he was
to give the response to the address of
welcome,, but on account of business was
unable to go down.
«JP»!-"
LITTLE FALLS, MORRISON COUNTY, MINNESOTA
CITY OF ST. CLOUD WILL PAY FOR
INJURIES TO EMPLOYEES
DIRECT
St. Cloud Journal-Press: The city of
St. Cloud is to go into the insurance bus
iness.
At the meeting of the city commis
sioners held yesterday afternoon that
body voted to reject all bids received for
compensation insurance and to set aside
annually the sum of $1,200 to be placed
in an insurance fund from which all
damages resulting fi injuries to city
employes will be paid.
It is believed that by carrying its own
insurance the city can save money and
the scheme will be given a thorough
test. The budget for the coming year
includes the first $1,200 to go into the
new fund.
The resolution parsed yesterday pro
vides that, the money cannot be used for
any other purpose.
DIED
Anthony Raymond, one of the early
residents of this county, passed away at
his home on Second avenue southr-as* on
Tuesday morning at about 11 o'clock
from internal disorders. He had been
failing in health for several month.- and
for the past couple of weeks was very
ill. He was SS years and 11 months of
age.
Deceased was born at St. Valentine,
Canada, November 11. 1S27. He was mar
ried to Miss Mathilda Provost at that
place in 1850 and eight yestrs later they
came to this country, locating at Ber
lin, Wis. In 1S75 they came to Minnesota
and located in Agram town, this county,
where they lived for many years. Mr.
Raymond served in the Civil war, for a
regular enlisted term.
A wife and eight children survive the
deceased. There are four boys, Anthony
of Chisholm, August of Minneapolis,
Isaiali of this city and William ©f Wheel
ock. N. D.. and four daughters, Mrs.
Mathilda Ridlon of this city, Mrs. A.
Salisbury, city Mrs. Franzella Cochran,
Saskatchewan, Can.: Mrs. Julia McCabe,
city. There are also 54 grandchildren,
64 great-grandchildren and 3 great-great
grandchildren.
The funeral was held from St. Francis
Xavier church yesterday morning at 9
o'clock and interment was in Calvary
Mrs. Paul Gawlik passed away at her
home in the eastern part of this city
Sunday night at about 11 p. m. She was
6S years of age. She is survived by her
husband.
The funeral was held from St.
Adal­
bert's church Wednesday morning at 9
o'clock and interment was in the Polish
Catholic cemetery.
Mrs. Chas. M. Sandstrom left today
for Minneapolis for a visit with Jier
daughter Clara and son Ernest.
Mrs. Paul Springer and Mrs. Alf. Burke
of Eau Claire, Wis., came down the first
of the week from Brainerd, where, they
have been visiting friends, and are now
visting at the Martin Kruger home. They
leave Sunday for a visit at Minneapolis.
Miss Ruth Van Buskirk is home for a
visit with her parents. She has com
pleted a course for trained nurse in a
•Minneapolis hospital and expects to re
turn there soon to take a position.
COME AND GONE
Mrs. Frank Renick went to Royal con
Wednesday for a short visit with her
mother, Mrs. Mary Ayres. Mrs. Ayres
will leave soon for Geddes, S. D., to
spend the winter with a son.
Leopold, William and John Leiden frost
of Pierz were in this city on business
Wednesday.
Auditor McNairy and County Attorney
Rosenmeier were in Royalton Tuesday,
on business in connection with a case
before Justice Wilson in which the coun
ty was interested.
George H. Vernon of St. Paul was in
the city for a visit with his son A. H.
Vernon, on Monday.
Count Attorney C. Rosenmeier was
in St. Paul on business yesterday.
Rev. and Mrs. T. B. Kennard left last
Wednesday for Park Rapids, to attend a
Baptist church conference. They expect
to visit at Sauk Centre before returning.
A. S. Monten returned Tuesday from a
short business trip to the twin cities.
Miss Ruth Compton left for her home
in Burtrum Wednesday, after a visit at
the home of her uncle and aunt, Mr. and
Mrs. J. H. Love of this city, en route
home from the twin cities.
James Moore of St. Cloud visited with
friends here the first of the week.
Mrs. Anna Maurin and daughter, Mrs.
O. Sletwold, of Elizabeth, visited at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. John Vertin the
middle of the week .enroute home from
a visit at St. Cloud.
Mrs. Howard Andrus and little son of
St. Cloud are visiting Mrs. Andrus' par
ents, Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Kay.
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Kramer and Mrs.
Pauline Kramer, the former's mother,
arrived here Wednesday for a visit with
friends. They are the guests of Mr. and
Mrs. Guy Buskirk of Seventh street
northwest.
Edwin Johnson has returned from
Flasher, N. D., where he has been em
ployed as stenographer for some time.
Drs. L. M. Roberts and J. G. Mills
paugh were in Minneapolis tnis week to
attend a meeting, of the state medical
society.
4
A. A. Barton and family of Bowlus
were in the city yesterday, making the
trip by automobile.
Miss Marie Kull has returned from a
visit with friends at Walker.
Miss Lulu S'plitorff returned Wednes
day from Minneapolis, where she attend
ed the wedding of a sister.
Mr. and Mrs. John Wetzel visited with
friends in St. Cloud yesterday.
G. W. Massy was in Minneapolis on
business yesterday.
Leo C. Smith made a business trip to
the. twin c.ties yesterday.
E. P. Callahan was in Minneapolis on
business Wednesday and Thursday.
H. O. Mugridge, manager of the Vic
tor theatre, was in Minneapolis on bus
iness the middle of the week.
Mr. and Mrs. Victor Schallern visited
friends at Staples yesterday.
Alfred A. Anderson of Swea City, la.,
who purchased the Chas. A. Peterson
farm in Pike Creek recently, has already
moved onto the place. He purchased a
large part of the property of Mr. Peter
son at the auction Tuesday. Mr. Peter
son and family left yesterday for their
old home near Mora, in Kanabec county,
where they have leased a farm.
MARRIAGE LICENSES
Marriage licenses have been issued the
past week to Peter O. Larson and Sarah
Borgstrom Wilhem Nelson and Amelia
Nelson Mike Blunk of LeSueur county
and Mary Wiczk Roman Janski and Su
san Kalis and to Willis A. Murphy of
Minneapolis and Marietta Potter.
MY SffJtK ffiK HBI WILSON
DATE NOT DEFINITELY MADE, BI^T
CHAMBERLAIN OF NEW YORK
MAY BE HERE NEXT WEEK
Although the date has not been posi
tively made, it is very likely that James
C. Chamberlain, the noted lawyer and
orator of New York, will make an ad
dress here either Wednesday or Friday
of the coming week at the court house,
in support of the administration of
President Wilson.
ROYALTON
Oct. 6.—C. H. Boyce shipped two car
loads of stock to Duluth this week.
Miss Nellie Wakefield of Sautr Centre
is here visiting at the h9me jf her aunt,
Mrs. J. N. Carnes.
John Sparrow of Graham was a guest
at the home of his brother William, on
Thursday.
A. C. Wilson was a business visitor at
the county seat Thursday.
Mrs. Raymond Crabtree has returned
to her home in Terry, Mont., accompan
ied by her mother, Mrs. Geo.- Kern.
George Wilson and Blaine McDougall
motored to Minneapolis Thursday and
were accompanied home Saturday by
John McDougall of St. Paul and Dr.
Wm. McDougall of Minneapolis, who re
mained until Sunday night.
Chet Rogers of Virginia called upon
friends in Royalton Sunday.
Mrs. G. L. Hawkinson of Cannon Falls
has been visiting at the homes of John
and Sanford Sjoberg, for several days.
Married—In Minneapolis Saturday, Oct.
8. Miss Carrie Batzer of Royalton and
John Wiener. Among the passengers
who left Royalton on the 7 a. m. train
Saturday morning were Mr. and Mrs. R.
J. Batzer, their eldest daughter, Miss
Carrie, and John Wiener. At liign noon
the young couple were married. Later
in the day Mr. and Mrs. Batzer contin
ued their trip to Morristown, S. D.. the
young couple going east to Chicago, Mon
treal, Quebec and finally to Iroquois
Falls, Ont., where they will reside for
an indefinite time.
Mrs. E. A. Bowers left Tuesday morn
ing for Wisconsin, where she was called
by the serious illness of an uncle, Sam
uel Higgins.
Dr. Staring of Detroit, Mich., arrived
Tuesday and is the guest of Mrs. A. C.
Wilson.
Dr. and Mrs. Doupe and Mr. and Mrs.
Pierson of Upsala were Royalton visitors
Wednesda5r.
The regular meeting of the O. E. S.
was held Tuesday evening.
Mrs. Jtfary Ayers leaves this week for
South Dakota, where she wil spend the
winter.
C. C. Lisle has recently purchased an
auto hearse, which with other modern
devices that he has recently procured
will make his undertaking establishment
very complete and up to date. It is the
only auto-hearse in Morrison county and
certainly reflects credit on the enterprise
of its owner.
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Barden have mov
ed to Park Rapids, where Mr. Barden
has been made wire chief by the North
western Telephone Co.
Oct. 9—Mrs. L. Fisher of Tacoma,
Wash., is visiting her cousin, Miss Ma
bel McEwan.
R. K. Carnes has returned to his ranch
at Wentworth and will remain during
the present month.
Dr. E. A. Anderson visited Dr. 'and
Mrs. A. M. Watson the first of the week.
Mrs. W. H. Bourke visited her son
Clarence, who is ill in the Northwestern
hospital at Minneapolis.
Mr. and Mrs. James Friary left Mon
day for their home in Ogilvie, after visit
ing relatives in and about Royalton.
Miss Mabel McEwa,n left Thursday with
her cousin. Mrs. Fisher, for the latter's
home in Tacoma, where she will spend
the winter.
Mr. and Mrs. J. Garber are in St. Paul
to attend the marriage of Mrs. Garber's
sister, Miss Sadie Galdbloom and Max
Shapers.
Mr. and Mrs. ijoren McDougall accom
panied by Mrs. James Lambert, were
Sunday visitor^ In Little Falls.
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Galley returned
from Minneapolis and St. Paul Sunday.
Mrs. C. O. Burt has returned from
Randall and, reports her son Will, to be
recovering from his recent gun accident.
Henry Renick has gone to Haywood,
Wis., to visit relatives.
Miss Eleanor Feitsam visited friends
in St. Cloud Tuesday.
Mrs. J. W. Lisle spent the week-end
in the cities, returning Sunday.
Rev. A. Carswell is a delegate to the
general convention uc the Episcopal
church, being held at St. Louis. Mr.
Carswell represents the diocese of Du
luth and being the first delegate sent
from here. Grace church is very proud
of the honor being done to its rector.
Dr. A. M. Watson, J. N. Carnes and
Dr. A. F. Anderson hunted at aullivan
lake the first of the week, bagging a
good number of ducks.
R. Baron, inspector of weights and
measures, was in town the first of the
week on business.
G. E. Wilson is laid up with an attack
of rheumatism.
Proprietor Linnehann of the Sullivan
Lake resort, was in Royalton Tuesday.
Mrs. R. B. Wilson entertained a party
of ladies Wednesday afternoon, at cards.
Little Alma Russell, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Russell, uied in the
Northwestern hospital in Minneapolis,
Wednesday night. Very sincere sympa
thy is felt for i^r. and Mrs. Russell in
their bereavement.
Miss Helen Petron entertained the
the Sewing circle Thursday afternoon.
C. C. Lisle went to Minneapolis last
Wednesday morning, returning later in
the day with a new motor car.
Dr. and Mrs. Doupe and Mr. and Mrs.
Pierson of Upsala were Royalton visitors
Wednesday.
BORN
CHRISTENSON—To Mr. and Mrs. Paul
Christenson, Sunday, October 8, a son.
KINGEN—To Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
Kingen, Friday, Octobe.1 6, a daughter.
KLEIBER—To Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Kleiber, Saturday, October 7, a daugh
ter.
ELLENBECKER—To Mr. and Mrs.
Wm. Ellenbecker, Thursday, October 12,
a son.
BENSON—To Mr. and Mrs. Andrew
Benson of Belle Prairie, Wednesday, Oc
tober 11, a son.
DUBBELS—To Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Dub
bels of Lincoln, Thursday, October 12, a
daughter, at the Hall hospital.
NICHOLS—To Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Nich
ols of Willmar, Tuesday, October 10, a
son. Mr. Nichols formerly residted in
Little Falls.
jt-1 •, 4-
TQRICAL
S
ER 13/1916
RHODES BUILDING IS SOU
M. I. WEUM OF MOORHEAD THE
PURCHASER-WILL HAVH THE
BUILDING REMODELED
•*»."•
I
A deal was consummated yesterday
whereby M. T. Weum of Moorhead be
came the owner of the Rhodes building
on First street southeast^"?which was
owned by Nettie M. Rhodes and daugh
ter Alice.
Mr. Weurn, who forinerlll^perated a
ladies' furnishings store 6ri. Broadway
east in this city, has great faith in the
(Jture of: this city and purchased the
j$lding as an investment. He stated
that the natural resources^, and water
power here, which are aS vyet undevel-T
oped to any extent, will befpre long cause
a material growth of the vcityr- as there
are few places where theve^is such splen
did water power as here: V-f'*
Already the new owner Iras let the con
tract for the installation *'of a steam
heating plant in tiie building and he
will also have the entire building remod
eled and new plate glass fronts instiled.,
The north store room is vacant .and the
other is occupied by the K^qgt'edy &
Brousseau store, while on 4lp$i Second
floor are located the offices ofiiifc'.ii. M.
Roberts and C. G. Mack.
Kunec KILL mm oat
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE FOR If. S.
SENATE COMES HERB^NBXT
THURSDAY
Frank B. Kellogg, republican candidate
for U. S. senator from this state, will
be here next Thursday to deliver a cam
paign address, at the court house at 8
o'clock of that evening.
Former Congressman Stevens and J.
Adam Bede will also speak the satmi, eve
ning.
THE FARMER AND THE STRIKE
The republicans have never been able
to regard the farmer as they do other
business men, or to treat the farmer's
business as they do other business. The
whole legislative record of the-party
shows this the line, of argument used
to the farmer by their speakers "atnd in
their campaign literature shows it.
The latest and most remarkable in
stance of this is the preachment- they
are now putting out that the settlement
of the strike by President Wilson was
of no value to the farmer and that a
great burden in the way of increased
freight rates will fall upon his shoulders.
There is no basis for either assertion.
The strike would not have e».M»ed the
farmer to actually suffer for food or for
fuel as the poor in cities would have
suffered. But his business would have
suffered.
With the railroad traffic of the nation
blocked the farmer's business would
have suffered along with all other busi
ness—in some ways more. He would,
have seen his grain, his corn, his cotton,
all his staple products, held on the farm
or running up storage charges in ware
houses. of no present use or value, and
to be later sold in an impaired market.
Were he shipping on contract he vrould
have been forced to break his contract.
He would have seen his fruit-and, ve
getables and all perishable produce rot
for lack of transportation to market—a
dead present loss to him, and a disor
ganized market at the end.
Those farmers who are feeders of live
stock and who depend in part on pur
chased foodstuff would have suffered ex
tra losses.
The farmer would have suffered incon
venience and loss as to overything he
ships to market and as to everytlfing he
buys from other points.
And in addition to this direct loss, he,
too, with the rest of the pobwtetfon,
would have suffered from the/6^Astrous
state of the business of th^"
"'country
brought about by the strike. far*ier
is not prospered by labor being" Idle,
manufactures, mines, mills and stock
yards closed and all commerce handcuff
ed with the poor suffering for food and
the babies for milk in the cities.
The harped on increase of freight rates
the farmer is going to., have to pay is
mere presumption. No promise of in
crease has been given the railroads. What
has been promised is that an investiga
tion shall be made and Just and- fair
freight rates allowed ilow welcome the
fulfilment of this promise will be to the
railroads is a questiofti.
The net earnings of ^^he railroads of
the country for the yeaP. ending June 1,
1916, were 768 millions dollars more than
the last year of the Taft administration.
This indicates a possibility that the es
tablishment of "just"#jates does not ne
cessarily mean highftr ratles. The water
in railroad stocks, tlife manipulatroa in
railroad deals and nianagement, may
cause it that the "burden" is to be born«
by the men in Wall Street who got Mil
lions for slight or even dubious services
to railroad management, as in the New
Haven instance,1'instead of the shippers
bearing the burden, be the.. shippers
farmers or miners or manufacturers or
lumber men. «V Vv
For two years the interstate commerce
commission has been, having made a
physical valuation of the railnpad* prop
erty in the United States. Upon its act
ual value and not upon their watered
stocks are taxes and freight rates- to b«
computed and based. The question of
just and fair freight rates is already be
ing carefully investigated by the eona
mission and will be investigated by con
gress when it meets in December. The
railroads are going tQv^e' allowed to
charge just freight rates ttnd their suc
cessful operation Is of S^: much value,
so necessary to the weil .leing of tke
country, that no good business Mian,
farmer, merchant, miner or manufac
turer, is going to begrifdge them the
right.
The position and the arguments of the
republicans exemplify iand jfrfcve their
total inability and cont|ftued. refusal to
view the farmer in his true position in
American life—a business, jfl^an that
there is a producing «ncl t6 bustoess
as to that of theft mine¥:.y»r »uu
facturer that there is a selling eai to
his business as' to others, a. financial
phase to his business/as to others that
as a shipper and as .A^C^er of freight
he stands in th6 S^me::SnQes^ai8 the other
shippers and .receivers:- •,
And a main fundamental mfperence now
between the two parties is £hat the
SI/
dem­
ocrats under Wilson have Recognized tfc*
farmer's real/status^—Pubjlcity Bureau,
Democratic National Xjominittee.
MUNICIPAL &XURT
Joe Snyder wits fined $5 and o«ats,
mounting to
day morning.
amounting to .$.97, by Jugge Lyon Bfon
fbr beating his young son
mkm
