TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 179.
HAUKE, VERMONT, FKIDAY, OCTOUKIt 13, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
THE BARR
DAILY
WARSHIPS SENT
OUT TO PATROL
U. S. COAST LINE
Fearing German Submarine
Attack on Shipping, Navy
Department Ordered Out
" a Far - Flung Force o f
Torpedo Boat Destroyers
from Bar Harbor, Me., to
; New York
ORDERS GIVEN TO
ENFORCE NEUTRALITY
And Also to Save Lives in
the Event of Further
Raids Other Torpedo
Boat Destroyers Are Be
ing Kept with Steam Up
for an Emergency Call
fearful of a submarine attack if the ven
turcd to sea.
As the ship passed quarantine lunt
night on her way out she wag signalled
by the Sterrett to stop. Ignoring the or
der. the steamer raced down the harbor
at full speed and was not overtaken by
the .Sterrett until she had passed through
Ambrose channel and was abreast the
channel lightship.
The Sterrett returned up the harbor
with its captive and anchored off Clif
ton, Staten Island.
New York navy yard officers disclaimed
all knowledge of the Sterrett's action
last night, and would venture no opinion
as to why the steamer was detained.
SAFE IN ENGLISH PORT.
Newport, R. I., Oct. 13. A far-flaring
patrol line of torpedo boat destroyers,
charged with double duty of enforcing
neutrality and saving lives in the event
of further submarine raids on shipping
off thege shores, went into service from
Bar Harbor, Me., to New York to-day.
Between Bar Harbor and New York
eleven destroyers were scouting to-day.
Official authority for the statement
that the patrol was ordered from Wash
ington was obtained this morning al
though the officer withheld the use of his
name.
In Narragansctt bay seven other de
stroyers were kept at routine torpedo
practice, with steam constantly up, and
available for an emergency call. The
operations of the patrol are being direct
ed by Rear Admiral Cleaves from his
flagship Birmingham here.
Steamer Kingstonian Was Not Victim
of German U-53.
Boston, Oct. 13. The British steamer
Kingstonian, reported . as among those
torpedoed by a German submarine off
Nantucket last .Sunday, is safe in port,
according to word received yesterday by
John M. Thomas of this city, local man
ager of the Leyland line, which owns the
ALLIES' FLIERS
ATTACK MAUSER
Forty French and British
Aeroplanes Bombarded
Munitions Works
DROPPED FOUR TONS
OF EXPLOSIVES
VERMONT PHYSICIANS
MEET IN CLINICS
Six German Aeroplanes De
fending Works Were
Shot Down
While the entente armies in northern
France and in the Austro-Italian war
theatre are keeping up their heavy blows
on the lines of the Teutonic foes, the lat
ter are continuing to counter heavily by
delivering crushing strokes on the Tran
sylvanian front. The Rumanians are be
ing forced back at the northwestern
Transylvanian swells ulong the border
in the Hermannstadt and Kronstadt re
gions, according to current war othce re
ports.
Vienna reports Rumanian resistance
was broken on both sides the Maros riv-
steamer. Mr. Thomas said his informa
tio'n showed that the Kingstonian was Pr where Berlin yesterday announced an
k 1. :i e-.- v- ... " . . r
thousands of miles from Nantucket last
Sunday.
As the Kingstonian is in the service of
the British admiralty, Mr. Thomas was
rlbt permitted to indicate the port at
which she had arrived, but he said it
would take her two weeks of steaming
at her usual speed to reach Nantucket.
I his information serves to confirm the
opinion held by marine men here that
the report of the Kingstonian's loss arose
from a confusion of her names with that
of Christian Kn.ndsen,- the Norwegian
tank steamer sunk by the U-boat. Cap
tain Wilson of the British steamer
Strathdent, another of the ships caught
by the submarine, bailed a passing vessel
and inquired her name. He understood
the reply to be "Kingston" and later aft
er the submarine had torpedoed the same
vessel and her crew had taken to their
boats, Captain Wilson reported to the
Nantucket lightship the loss of the sup
posed "Kingston."
encircling movement in progress. The
Rumanians are declared to le in flight
there'.
Paris, Oct. 13. Forty French and Brit
ish aeroplanes dropped four tons of ex
plosives last night on the Mauser works
at Oberndorf. Germany, on the Neckar
river, the war office announced to-day,
and six German machines defending the
works were shot down.
Heavy artillery fighting took place on
the Sunime front, last night. To-day's
statements say the bombardment was
particularly severe in the regions of
Morval, Bouchavcsnes, Ablaineourt and
Chaulnes.
At Annual Meeting of Vermont State
Medical Society in St. Johnsbury
1 Dr. C. H. Beecher New
President.
St. Jonnsbury, Oct. 13. Over HHI phy
sicians are attending the 10.3d annual
meeting of the Vermont State Medical
society which opened here yesterday
This morning there were two interesting
clinics conducted by Dr. .John Kllsworth
Eliot, ir., of the Presbyterian hospital in
New York and Dr. John R. Williams of
Rochester, N. Y., the special subjects tak
en up being nrigiu a disease and gall
stones. There were no operations.
Late this afternoon the house of dele
gates will report and Dr.. Williams will
give his address, which, was postponed
from yesterday when the speaker made
the mistake of going lo Rutland instead
of St. Johnsbury. Pres. K. H. Rosa of
St. Johnsbury will also give his annual
address. During this morning the wom
en oi the party were given an automobile
ride.
Dr. C. H. Beecher of Burlington was
elected president from the floor of the
convention, which was an unusual pro
ceeding, as the house of delegates usually
nominates. A banquet was held last
night at the New Ave:. house, there
being 200 in attendance. The bouse of
delegates has gone on record as favoring
the idea of Vermont taking some action
to care for her dependent children.
CONCESSIONS
PROMISED
By British and French Gov
ernments on Treatment
of Mails
WILL NOT ABANDON
RIGHT OF SEARCH
Allies Think the Wishes of
the United States Will
Be Met
ASKS U. S. HELP IN
RURAL CREDITS FRAUD
SPECTATOR KILLED.
SUBMARINE REPORTED
ASTERN OF FREIGHT
ER COMING TO PORT
British Steamer Bo vie Sent Wireless
Message Stating That Unidentified
War Vessel Was 200 Miles
East of New York.
Boston, Oct. 13. A submarine of un
identified nationality is reported 200
miles east of New York in a wireless
Imessage from the British steamer Bovic
jto-day. The message said that the eub
marine was astern but did not indicate
whether Jt was pursuing the liovic or
keeping an independent course.
The Bovic is a White Star line freight
er which sailed from Manchester, Eng
and, Sept. 30 and is due in New York
jto-day or to-morrow. '
TO SEARCH SHORE
FOR NAVAL BASE
OF BELLIGERENTS
Admiral Mayo Announces That He Will
Also Determine If Wireless Plants
Are Operating in Violation
of Neutrality.
Washington, D. C, Oct. 13. Admiral
JMayo, commanding the Atlantic fleet,
notified the navy department to-day that
he had ordered a survey of the Xew Eng
land coast to investigate the reports that
belligerent ships had established a base
)there or that wireless plants were being
nperated in violation ot American neu
trality.
FOREIGN WARSHIPS
STEAMING SOUTH
Cruisers and Destroyers Were on Their
Way to New England Coast, Ac
cording to Captain of Incom
ing Steamer.
Boston, Oct. 13. A fleet of foreign
cruisers and destroyers is off the Amer
ican coa-st, according to Captain Linder
ros of the Russian steamship Hesperus,
which arrived to-day from Huelva, Spain.
The captain told the pilot who brought
him in that a lot of cruisers and destroy
ers passed him off Cape Sable, Nova
Scotia, Wednesday, heading southwest.
At their rate of speed they must be off
the coast now, he said. The Hesperus
captain had not heard of the German
submarine raid of Sunday, having no
tireless.
STEAMER HAULED BACK.
And Many People Were Wounded in
, . Bayonne Riot..
Bayonne, N. J., Oct. 13. One man was
killed and at least a score wounded, two
of them seriously so they are not expect
ed' to live, in a pitched battle here late
yesteTday between striking employes of
the Standard Oil company and the police.
New Jersey militiamen, back from duty
along tne .Mexican border, who were
sworn in as special policemen, aided in
dispersing the rioters, who were terroriz
ing the city by looting and burning.
Half a dozen sheds overlooking the oil
refineries were set on lire before the au
thorities could restore a semblance of
order by firing volleys into the ranks of
the strikers and their sympathizers.
Jetdor Natilaky, 22 years old, a lawyer,
who had no part in the rioting yesterday,
was the man killed. He was shot through
the back, while running from the scene
of the battle. Harris 'Martin, 10, and
Edward Green, 30, both shot, will die.
Five others are in hospitals suffering
from wounds but are expected to recov
er. Ihe police report hat more than
a dozen strikers and their sympathizers
who were injured were parried to their
homes. As far as could be learned, none
of the policemen or the militiamen was
hurt. A fireman, however, was shot ear
lier in the day, while attempting to at
tach a hose to a hydrant in an effort to
drive away a crowd which, it was said,
was attempting to loot and wreck several
stores.
Attempts at sniping from house tops,
and a report that the strikers had pur
chased many revolvers in Jersey City
led the authorities to take drastic action.
As soon as they were reinforced by the
militiamen, the polico took thirty strik
ers and started off to raid the saloons
which had denied an order to close.
As the Advance guard entered the
strike arc& they were met hf missies
from roofs and doorways. They immedi
ately opened Are, which was returned by
the strikers and their sympathizers. The
latter, enraged by the fight with the po
lice Wednesday night in which one wom
an was killed and many of their number
wounded had announced that the police
who attacked them would "come back
in boxes."
The militiamen formed one of several
columns directed by the police to sur
round the strikers and their sympathiz
ers. ' The shooting began as soon as the
columns closed in on the rioters.
So serious had the situation become
last night that the Bayonne Business
Men's association announced its members
all would close their stores during the
continuation of the strike. They asked
for police protection. As grocery stores,
which had been patronized by the strik
ers, are to be included in tne closing,
trouble is feared.
AUSTRIANS ADMIT
LOSS OF TOWN
TO ITALIANS
But Declares That Efforts of Italians at
Other Points Were Repulsed Ru
manian Defense Against
Teutons Failed.
Vienna, Thursday, via London, Friday
Oct. 13. The Italians are maintaining
their attacks on the Austrians without
cessation and desperate fighting con
tinues, to-day's announcement says. The
Italians gained ground east of Oppaochis
ella in their drive toward Triest and cap
tured the town of Novavsas. At other
points the utmost efforts of the Italians
gained nothing, but the number of Has
ian prisoners has been increased to 2,700.
The efforts of the Rumanians to stay
the Auxtro-Orman advance in Transyl
vania have failed, the statement says.
No important changes on the Russian
front are reported.
BRITISH MOVE AHEAD
AND TAKE PRISONERS
Success Scored at Two Points on Sorame
Front and 150 Germans Were
Captured.
London. Oct. 13. Progress for the Brit
ish in yesterday's fighting on the Somme
front was announced in an official state
ment to-dav. British advances were
scored between (Jueudecourt and Les
boeufs and northwest of Oueudecourt.
Some 150 Germans were made prisoner.
Federal Farm Loan Board Calls on De
partment of Justice to Aid in Head
ing Off Country-Wide Swind
ling Plot.
Washington, Oct. 13. Seeking to head
off what they believe Is developing into
one of the greatest financial frauds the
United States has .known, the federal
farm loan board yesterday asked the aid
of the department of justice.
Clear across the continent in a strip
of states from Virginia to California, the
board reported to the justice department
organizations, either deliberately fraudu
lent or at best illegal, have sprung up
for the purpose of defrauding farmers
through the latter's Ignorance of the new
rural credits act. In one single instance,
it is said, the farmers have been victim
ized to an aggregate of 2,10,0(10.
Governors of states and members of
Congress have been made unwitting par
ties to some of these illegal operations,
it is said, the promoters taking advan
tage of them, as well as of the farmers.
Prominent men in all walks of life have i
been involved, their names being used in
some cases simply to lend respectability.
The board believes it! will be able to
prosecute successfully. Rome time ago,
it was announced, a ruTijtg that no pro
posed joint stock lanif bank will be char
tered if it has spent money for promo
tion. This was designed to hold the ex
pense of operation down to a minimum
in order that the interest rates to farm
ers may be the lowest possible In the
face of this ruling, it is said, promoters
have continued to sell stock in proposed
land banks and to take parts of the pro
ceeds for their own services.
One of these concerns failed before it
could ever have applied for a charter,
but it had sold stock to the amount of
several hundred thousand dollars to
farmers. In many cases the stock has!
been sold with the understanding that
the company is to apply for a charter un
der the new federal law, when there
has been no such contention on the part
of the promoters.
Washington. 1). C, Oct. 13. Radical
changes in the treatment of mails on
neutral ships are promised in the reply
of the British and French governments
to American protests against interfer
ence with the mails. These changes,
while short of the abandonment of con
tention of right to search for informa
tion of value to an enemy, Hre regarded
by the allies as sufficient to meet the
wishes of the United States.
ONE BODY FOUND.
That of John Smith of Huntington
Drowned in Lake Champlain.
Burlington, Oct. 13. The body of John
Smith of Huntington, who was drowned
near the drawbridge on the long fill of
the Rutland railroad last Sunday morn
ing, was found yesterday bv a party of
searchers, who have kept at work since j
the time of the tragedy. Ihe body of
E. C. Morrill, who was drowned at the
same time, was not recovered yesterday,
but it is thought that with calm weath
er the body will be found to-day.
Smith's body was found in about the
place where the man sank to his death
Sunday after keeping afloat for about
ten minutes. F. H. Wells, who owns
Stave island, has kept his men and boats
busy, as has Dr. H. Nelson Jackson, who
owns Providence island, in the same vi
cinity. K. A. Brodie, by whom Mr. Mor
rill was employed, has been at the scene
of the accident everv day, and every
effort has been put forth by a large num
ber of men to recover the bodies it h the
result that Smith's body was found yesterday.
Where the accident occurred the water
is from eighfr to ten feet deep and Smith's
body was found m about eight feet of
water. Though grapples have been used
and yesterday some dynamiting was
done, the body was found by a boat in
which the men were simply watching the
bottom. It is thought that had the lake
remained calm for a half hour longer
the body of Morrill would have been re
covered, but a slight breeze came up, rip
ling the water and making it impossible
for the searchers to see bottom. The
men are confident that with calm weath
er to-day Morrill's body will be found.
GIRL'S SUFFERINGS
ENDED BY DEATH
Little Ervina Cardinl Was Burned When
She Was Playing with Matches on
Wednesday Afternoon and
She Died Last Evening.
Death came last night to end the suf
fering of little Krvina Cardini. daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Natale Cardini, who was
severely burned while playing with
matches in her home Wednesday after
noon. 1 he child passed away at 0 o clock.
Hopes for her recovery were entertained
during the day, but toward evening her
ondition began to fail perceptibly. JJeep
burns in the abdominal region and burns
across both thighs were responsible for
her death, ihe little girl was born in
ftarre April 1, !13, and was the only
child in the family.
Lute Wednesday afternoon her mother
heard a scream and found the child's
clothing enveloped in flames when she
hurried into the yard. Somewhere the
young one had obtained matches, al
though members of the Cardini family
are at a loss to explain where she found
them. Mrs. Henry h. Powers, who lives
at No. 4 Grant avenue, also saw the
chihl's plight and rushed to her rescue
with a rug. It was her forethought that
prevented more horrible burns, as she
quickly smothered the (lames with the
heavy carpeting. A physician who was
called found portion of the child's wear
ing apparel consumed.
The funeral will be held at the house
Saturday afternoon at 2 o'clock and in
terment will be made in Hope cemetery.
DECLARE VOTE
NOT SEX RIGHT
Members of Vermont W. C.
T. U. in Appeal to Ver
mont Legislature
WOULD PURGE FAIRS
OF IMMORAL SHOWS
42d Annual Cov.-ntion Was
Brought a Close
Last Jwening
RUTLAND GIRL BURNED.
Was Pushed Into Fire in Street by An
other Child.
Rutland, Oct. 13. Helena, eight-year-
old daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Enis Fre
gosi of Water street, this city, was fatal-
burned yesterday afternoon when her
lothing caught Hre from burning leaves
while she was at play in the street. An
other child accidentally pushed her so that
she fell into the fire and her clothing
was nearly burned off before assistance
arrived. She was rushed to the hospital
in an ambulance after D. F. H. Geb
hardt had been called. Doctors say there
is no hope for her.
BURIAL AT SHELBURNE.
And Funeral of Miss Lois Laviolette Was
Also Held There.
WAS NATIVE OF CHELSEA.
PREPARING FOR ANOTHER TRIP.
Captain Paul Koentg Says He is Coming
to America Soon.
Amsterdam, via. London, Oct. 13. Ac-
cordinga to the Hamburg Nachrrichten,
Captain Taul Koenig of the German sub
marine Deutschland, replying to a tele
gram of congratulation from his native
town on his voyage to the United States
and return, said he was busy with prep
aration for a second trip across the ocean,
to begin soon.
GERMANS REPULSED.
Tok Offensive Along the Shara River In
Russia.
Fetrograd, via London, Oct. 13. Ger
man troops took the offensive yesterday
along the Shara river in Russia, north of
the Pinsk marshes. The war office an
nounced to-day that the Germans had
captured trenches in that section, but
were subsequently expelled with heavy
lessen.
RUSSIAN TRANSPORTS ATTACKED.
THEY HATE VILLA.
After Evading U. S. Destroyer's Signal
to Stop.
New York, Oct. 13 The British steam
r. City of Madras, was overhauled off
Ambrose channel lightship last night by
the United States torpedo boat destroy
tr, Jsterrett. and brought back to Clif
ton, Staten Island, after it had ignored
the war vessel's signal to stop when it
left quarantine.
The City of Ma. Iras, a vessel of 3,01
tons, cleared from this port Monday for
Malia, ami Hong Kong, but
bingapore,
anchored above quarantine, apparently tuade the men to enlist.
But the Peons Would Fight with Him
Against Americans.
El Paso. Tex., Oct. 13. Notwithstand
ing the sufferings of peons in the district
in which Villa is now operating, they
would rise to a man in Villa's behalf if
the American punitive expedition were
to attempt to move south of its present
base, according to the report made to his
superiors yesterday by a Mexican Ito
testant missionary who has just returned
from a visit to central Mexico.
The peons, he explained, fear and hate
Villa but they have been taught to be
lieve that the Americans would go after
Villa only with the masked purpose of
seizing and annexing the country.
Many refugees, the missionary report
ed, who come out of the interior with
the intention of returning to the United
States tre stopped at Chihuahua City by
Carranza recruiting agents, who tell
about the difficulties in passing the
American inspectors at El Fa so and per-
Berlin Reports Successful Movement at
Constanza on Black Sea.
Berlin, via wireless, Oct. 13. A suc
cessful attack by German naval aero
planes upon Russian transports in the
Rumanian harbor of Constanza in the
Black sea is reported in an admiralty
statement dated yestenlay.
1,300 TEACHERS PRESENT
And More Were Expected at State Con
vention in Burlington.
Burlington, Oct. 13. The registration
at the Vermont State Teachers' associa
tion convention here was 1,300 this after
noon and more were expected. The pro
gram as arranged for to-day was carried
out.
A reception was held in the library late
yestenlay in honor of Milo B. Hillepas,
the new commissioner of education. In
the receiving line were: Mr. and Mrs.
E. L. Ingalls, Mr. Ingalls being the presi
dent of the state teachers' association.
Commissioner and Mrs. Hillegas. Mr. and
Mrs. James Hartnes of Springfield, the
former being the president of the state
board of education. Rev. and Mrs. A. W.
Hewitt of Plainfield and Mr. and Mm.
L. B. Johnson of Randolph, Mr. Hewitt
and Mr. Johnson being on the state board
of edn-ation, and Iresident and Mrs. G.
P. Benton. Refreshments of lemonade
were served.
George Carleton Was One of the Older
Citizens of Duxbury.
Duxbury, Oct. 13. In the death of
George Carleton, Duxbury loses another
of her older citzens. Bo -in Chelsea
in 1834, the son of Samuel and Nancy
(Bohonon) Carleton, he came to Water
bury as a young boy and was educated
in the local schools. He married Lucy
Orover and they lived for many years
on the so-called Carleton place on the
Moretown side of the river from Water
bury village. During these years he was
well known, served as school committee
and was interested in public affairs. '
For a number of years .ie has lived
with his daughter, Mrs. F. C. Davis, at
North Duxbury. Four years ago he had
a shock and since that time has been in
poor health. Two weeks ago he had an
other shock, from which he never rallied.
The deceased 1 survived bv three
daughters, Mr F. C. Davis and Mrs.
Frank Lewis of Duxbury and Mrs. John
Harvev of Lowell, Mass. There are eight
grandchildren and five great-grandchil
dren.
The funeral will be held from the Da
vis honia to-morrow afternoon at 2
o'cl'H-k, with burial in the Duxbury cor
ner cemetery.
BURIAL AT ELMW00D.
Mrs. Julia Bruce's Funeral Was at Her
Daughter's Home.
The funeral of Mrs. Julia Bruce, wife
of the late William Bruce, whose death
occurred Tuesday afternoon, was held at
the home of her daughter, Mrs. Charles
Williams, 230 South Mam street, Thurs
day afternoon at 2 o'clock. Rev. J. B
Reardon, pastor of the Universalist
church, officiating. The bearers were:
James Glidden, Charles Williams, Asa
Tyrrell and Messrs. Pierce, McKane and
Bianchi. Interment was made in the
family lot in Elmwood cemetery.
MRS. BOWLES' FUNERAL.
Was Held at Her Late Home Thursday
Afternoon.
Funeral services for Mrs. Vienna
(Berkley) Bowles, who passed away at
her home on Beck ley hill Monday night,
were held at the house yesterday aft
ernoon at 2 o'clock. Rev. B. G. Lipsky,
pastor of the Hedding Methodist church,
was the officiating clergyman and the
bearers were: Roswell Beckley, Fred
Beckley, Frank Beckley and Henry
Hawes. Mrs. Gladys Bradley sang two
selections.
The funeral of Miss Lois Laviolette
daughter of Mrs. Stella laviolette of
Barre, who died at the home of her
grandparents in Shelburnc Tuesday
morning, was held at St. Catherine's
church in that village yesterday after
noon, there being a large number of rela
tives and friends in attendance. Father
Henry had charge of the service, and the
bearers were all Barre young people, be
ing Leslie Ladd, William Clark and Bur
ton Jones, her classmates in school, and
Floyd Gerrard, Albert Neddo and Clar
ence Burke. Interment was in the ceme
tery at Shelburnc.
Among those who attended the funeral
were Mr. and Mrs. Fred Canton, Mrs.
Frank Burke. Mrs. Carrie Burke Gonyo,
Miss Frances Burke, George and Will
Neddo, Mr. and Mrs. Lyman Matott, Mr.
and Mns. Thomas Abare and Will Web
ster, all of Barre; Mr. and Mrs. Martin
Barrows and Mr. and Mrs. Edward Bar
rows of Waltham; Mr. and Mrs. Dennis
Rivait. Miss Mina Rivait and Mrs. Vina
Prnnier of Wcybridge and Mrs. C. W.
Pain of Burlington.
The floral tributes were as follows:
Pillow of roses from her mother; pillow
of roses, Mr. and Mrs. Paul Laviolette;
1.1 chrysanthemums, Mrs. F. H. Burke
and familv; 1.1 chrysanthemums, Mr. and
Mrs. Fred Canton and family; wreath of
'roses. Jlrs. C. W . I'ain; carnations, .Miss
Flossie Neddo, Miss Grace Covey. Mrs.
Mamie Mortimer, Mr. and Mrs. Harold
EniiH, Miss Marie Mortimer. Miss Maud
Coburn; 1.1 roses from Spaulding high
school; 15 American Beauty roses. Will
Webster; roses, Mr. and Mrs. Lvman Ma
tott and Miss Bessie Cummings; 15 white i
roses from employes of Mrs. Stella La
violette. Mis Amelia Marceau. Mrs. Fred
Bird, Miss Pearl Wilkins; carnation,
Miss Pearl Abare; gladioli, Miss Fannie
Bacon ; flowers, Mr. and Mrs. Walter
Palmer.
CASES WIPED OUT.
MILK PRODUCERS AT ODDS.
Conflicting Factions in Dairymen's League
in New York.
New York, Oct. 13. While one faction
of the Dairymen's league asserted that
its controversy with New York milk dis
tributors had been settled and was order
ing members to ship milk to this citv.
another faction telegraphed to the farm
ers Wednesday night not to forward
milk. President Jacob S. Brill sent out
messages directing shipments to the four
largest dealers who, he announced, have
agreed to meet the advance in price
asked by the producers.
r. H. I ooper. chairman of the execu-
tice committee of the league, at the
same time despatched telegram telling
the farmers Brill had no authority to at
and directing them not to deliver milk
to any dealer who had not signed a con
tract with the league.
Mark G. DuBois of Poughkeepsie an
nounced on behalf of President Brill, who
wa ill, he said, that 17 firms, including
the Borden Condensed Milk Co.. the Shef
field Farms-Slaw son-Decker Co., the R.
F. Stevens Co. and otner smaller dealers,
had agreed to pay the advances of 4.1
cent for 100 pounds under the condi
tions agreed to by the dealers who have
signed.
To rh-ar up the confusion an extra
ordinary session of the directors and of
the leairue was called at K o'clock last
night.
FUNERAL OF MRS. DIKE.
Who Died Wednesday Was Held at Her
Home, 11 Brook Street.
The funeral of Mrs. Carrie Dike, whose
death occurred Tuesday evening, was
held at the house, 11 Brook street,
Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock. Rev.
W. J. M. Beattie, rector of the Church
of the Good Shepherd, officiating. Tha
bearers were: Thomas Davidson, Thom
as Bailey, Forrest Chappies, and Denni
son Densmore. Interment was made in
the family lot at Elmwood cemterv.
SUPREME COURT CONCLUDES.
October Term at Montpelier Was Un
usually Short.
The October term of supreme court,
which opened Oct, 3, was concluded yes
tenlay afternoon and the justices left
this forenoon for their respective homes.
The court term was unusually short,
many cases being heard as a general
thing at this time. Most of the cases on
the trial calendar were continued until
next month, some were submitted on
briefs and only a few wer ; argued.
Court Judgments Against Fred Millan are
Satisfied.
Ca-es against Fred A. Millan of Arling
ton, Mass., formerly of Barre, have been
erased from the county court docket as
the result of settlements reported to the
recorder yesterday. Judgment was satis-
tied in the Vases brought by Nina Lovely
and Irving Boyce as the result of a col
lision near the Three Mile bridge in 1915,
a mix-up in which the plaintiffs alleged
that Millan was liable for damages. The
court held with the plaintiffs in both
cases and when the defendant's bonds
men engaged Deputy Sheriff H. J. Slay
ton to locate the defeudant, Millan was
found in Arlington. Mass. On the way
back to Vermont, Millan slid through a
Pullman car window, apparently having
lost interest in the case.
Whereupon Deputy Slay ton, returning
to Barre empty-handed, resolved to con
tinue his quest of Millan The defendant's
wife came to Barre and it is stated that
it was through her attorneys that settle- j
ments were effected. Meanwhile. Millan i
was located in New Hampshire, through
the efforts of the local deputy aid the
Arlington police, but with the settlement
of outstanding claims, Millan's bondsmen
had no further interest in his where
abouts.
After reaffirming its allegiance to the
principle of equal suffrage, declaring foi
the abolition of immoral shows anrl
gambling devices at the rural fairs, and
petitioning for an extension of publieitj
favors from the press, the 42d annual
convention of the Vermont Woman'f
Christian Temperance union closed las)
evening, after one of the most successful
gatherings in many years. This morning
the list of officers elected yesterday was
supplemented by the announcement o'
the following delegates to the national
convention, which meets in Indianapolis
Ind., next month: First district, Mrs. W
H. H. Avery of Middlctown Springs anil
Mrs. F. II. Rastall of Manchester Center;
second district, Mrs. Ethel Dickens ol
Orleans and Mrs. B. 0. Spaulding ot
Newport.
Howard Geake, who gave a recital of
anonymous authorship, entitled. "Blun
ders," was awarded the gold medal in the
prize speaKing contest, which marked the
formal closing of the convention in tht
Hedding Methodist church. The othei
contributions were possessed of much
merit and each speaker received a money
prize. The judges were: Miss Elsie L.
Pease of Swanton, Rev. Mabel T. Winch
of East Arlington and Mrs. E. M. Denny
of Montpelier. Rev. B. J. Lehigh of the
First Baptist church conducted the devo
tional exercises and after the service a
large audience listened to the following
program: "The Man of the Hour"
(Grote), Richard Cruiekshank; "The Ma
donna of the Tubs" (Phelps), Miss Mar
guerite Currier; "The Everlasting Whis
per" (linling), Miss Sylvia Rizzi; 'Blun
ders," Howard Geake ; "The Story of
Patsy' (Wiggm), Miss Marion W. Ank
er; "Waterloo, Our Fight, His Victory"
(Conner). Miss Loraine Loranger.
Below is given in full the resolutions
adopted just before adjournment.
i hanking our heavenly rather for
His guidance during the past year, for
the strength and wisdom given u, for
all the success attained, for the lessons
learned and the experiences gained: Re
solved, That with courage and confidence
we set our faces toward the work of the
coming year, believing that He who has
led to victory His people in all the past,
will be our guide even to the end."
"Believing that a better V ermont and
a stronger nation depends upon the mor
al training of our children: Resolved,
That we have for our aim a young peo
ple's branch or a loyal temperance legion,
or both, organized and maintained wher
ever any union exists, and that we cm
brace every opportunity to introduce
temperance teaching in our Sunday
schools and day schools; and to lend as
sistance and give inspiration to our pub
lic school teachers that their instruction
on scientific temperance may be more ef
fective."
"Resolved, That the W. C. T. U. ol
Vermont, by united effort, do what if
can to purge our county fairs of immoral
sideshows and gambling devices.
"Resolved, That each union be urged tc 1
report all local meetings in their count'
papers, mentioning temperance news arm
truths there presented ; also, that each
county press superintendent be urged tc
interview the editors in their county
asking them to publish the Associates
Press despatches during the week of Nov
1,1-23, the time of the national conven
tion at Indianapolis."
"Resolved, aa the national Woman's
Christian Temperance union declares oui
need of the ballot; as all political parties
in their platiorms approve it; as wo be
lieve there should be no sex in citizen
ship, that we appeal to our stale legis'
lature asking for the enactment of lawi
which will give the women of Vermont
all the voting privileges in their powel
to bestow; that we - memorialize oui
United States senators and congressmen
urging their support of Senate resolutioi
Xo. 1, which will submit to the Icgisla
tures of the several i-tatcs for ratifica
tion an amendment to the federal consti
tution forbidding discrimination i" vot
ing privileges on account of sex."
"Resolved. That we extend our hearty
thanks to the W. C. T. U. and the peopb
of Barre for the use of the church, foi
their generous hospitality, to the musi
cians, to the clergymen lor ineir coruw
words of cheer, and to all who hav
helped to make this convention profit
i able."
HEARING DIVORCE CASE.
Mabel E. Hickens vs. John C. Hickens
Heard By Judges.
In county court this forenoon the di
vorce suit of Mabel E. Hickens vs. John
C. Hickens was heard by Judge Fish and
Assistant Judges Dale and Dana. Atty.
William White appeared for the petition
er, w ho seeks a divorce on grounds of re
fusal to support. They were married in
IKflfl and moved to Northfield a short
time ago from Manchester, N. H. The
ce of Catherine H. Sawtelle vs. W. H.
Karrsr, .lohn Farrar and C E. Lowe, to
recover 7", i entered to-day with
the clerk.
BURLINGTON HIGH WINS.
At Vermont Boys' and Girls' Industrial
Exposition.
Burlington. Oc t. 13. Awards were
made last night at the Vermont boys'
and girls' industrial exposition as fol
lows:
Graded schools, St. Johnsbury first ;
high schools, Burlington rirt, Orleans,
second, Montpelier third. Stowe fourth.
Essex Junction junior high scluxd and
Essex Center high, tied for fifth.
State institutions, agricultural school,
Randolph Center, first; Normal school at
Castleton fifth.
TWO ALREADY DEAD
And Third Thought to Be Dying from
Auto Accident.
Manchester. X. H-. Oct. 13. Two men
are dead and another is apparently dy
ing as the result of an automobile acci
dent last night on the state boulevard
six miles north of Manchester, near
Hook sett.
The dead are Dalphe Proulx of 42f
Granite street and Ernet A. raquin of
Notre Dame avenue. Ihe third, who r
believed fatally injured, is Antonio lro
vencher of Nashua, who-e parents. Mr
and Mrs. Albert Proven'her. live at 41
West street. West Manchester.
The tragedy took place at a bend ir
the road. The three men were found fret
of the machine and thrown upon a pile ot
rovk.
Two were dead when the police ambu
lance reached the scene and the other hat
i ... ... .
Tinker is to lose his job and thev also been earned hy Or. Iutterti. i,i ot Min-
elaim that bis job as manager of the conk to the Mliot nopitai in tnic.t.
Oibs will be taken bv Frank Chance, the ' There is no inkling as to how the aeri-
leader int tii'-.
The "Stove league" persists that Joe
jM-erb'
I
