MEW MEXICO STATE RECORD
$1.50 A YEAR.
SANTA FE NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1916.
NUMBER 107
A CORDIAL
RECEPTION FOR
G.O.PSPEAKERS
EVERY CITY TOWN AND
HAMLET IN THE STATE
GIVES THEM LARGE AUDIENCES
governor of New Mexioo next Janu
ary. In his study of the exhibits at
the fair, he was JuHt as patient and
thorough as he was in going all ovor
the Isolated county ot San Juan coun
ty, studying that wonderful country
and learning from the people what
their most Imperative needs are.
Since Uie matter of beta has boon men
tioned, It will not he amiss to say
here that the tame blackboard in
Albuoueruue contains mnnv nffnm t
AND brt S-''"1 u m- a"rt others at the
Fame ouds, that nursum will bo
elected governor. Not one of theae
bets has been covered.v Lust week In :
Albuquerque three Democrats and one '
Progressive "chipped in" $5rt each and I
jbet the pool that Ilursum will be elect- I
. ea by a plurality of not less than !
12,000 votes. I
Gallup't Great Reception. j
I Gallup, county seat of McKlnlojr. and i
niM iirrTiiinp vovrn f8r an(i w,,ie s town of po-
IWIJ Mrt I INllN litiC411 Pa'"y. w Invnded Monday!
IIIVW by the party. Au(J Gallupi 0 tmt j
j afternoon and night, lost Its refutation j
as Indifferent to the visits of politi- :
IN ONE EVENING AND BOTH I? "V&l '
OF THEM ARE LARGE ANDl,endpy "f P"iHc 'n' ruction, made up
uie party 01 speaKej-H. rein jiaca, ot
RATON HAS
ENTHUSIASTIC IN SPITE
OF OTHER ATTRACTIONS
SAMS NIGHT
Extraordinary Attendance
The meeting oft the Republican
candidates held in East Raon last
week was attended by a crowd so
large that many could not be
commodated inside the hall.
Owing to the fact that there
were several other attractions on
the same evening including a box
ing contest, special movie abac
tion, and that it was a rainy night
this, large turn out was consider
ed phenominal.
The meeting1 was addressed by
Hon. H. O. Bursting than Frank
A. Hubbell and Hon. B. C. Hern
andez. As East Raton is! the
Spanish speaking portion of the
city all spoke in that language.
The same evening another meet-J
ing was ncia at me rnncess i nea
tre and the attendance there was
also large. Hon. H. O. Bursum
and Congressman C. B. Miller of
Minnesota addressed this meeting
and the latter told his audience of
the prospects for the success of the
national and congressional tickets
the election of which he considers
certain.
Relative to this meeting Guthrie
Smith writing from Raton says :
lUton, N. M., Oct. 8. Speaking
bre tonight from the same platform,
Hon. C. B. Miller, congressman from
Minnesota, and Hon. H. O. Bursum,
Republican candidate for governor of
New Mexico, discussed respectively
the great Issues of the day, as they
affect both the nation and the state
of New Mexico. Mr. Miller is one
of the three speakers of national rep
utation to enter New Mexico this week
to make mldresHes upon matters of
vital Interest to the people. Between
now end the 7th day of November,
some fifteen 'o eighteen more of these
prominent, men will join in the Inva
sion of the .stat, so it Is announced
by Judge Re-,,1 Hnllcwan, chairman of I
the New Mwcr .ipeakers' bureau.
Th week wlihh eiuls today has
been cne of the greatest interest to
the Republican ciiiupnlgii party which
has been compose! of Kinnlt A. tlub
bell, candidate for United States sen
ator; nmiigno ('. Iloiiuimlez, candi
date for repres" ntufiva in congress,
and Holm O. Ilursum, candidate for
govornor. The stay In Albuquerque,
attending the Thirty-sixth Now Mex
ico State Fair, could not be called
wholly a vacation, Mr. Hubbell was
Id his homo town and spent practically
all of his time In effective work. A
blackboarrl In one of the bars In Al
buquernuo has chalked up a number
of offers to bet that A. A. .Tones, the
Democratic caml'date for the senate,
will defeat Hubbell. Every one of
these bets has been covered. Any
organized opposition to Hubbell that
may exist In his home county of Hor
nallllo lies buried far below the sur
face none of It was In evidence dur
ing fair week Hernandez was called
away before the close of the fair, to
attend to Important matters In the
northern part of the state.
Seeing The People
After the Raton meetings Messrs
Hubbell and Hernandez went to Al
bnqeurque, Santa Fc and Espanola
where they attended the Rio Arri
ha county convention.
Mr. Bursum went overlanH from
Raton to Wagon Mound where he
met Prof. J. H. Wagner. Between
these points he made stops at Max
well, French, Springer and Colmor
at all of which places he met many
people who were anxious to meet
the next governor of New Mexico.
At Wagon Mound a fine turn out
greeted the candidates and another
at Roy the following evening.
To Union County
Messrs Bursum and Wagner then
went on into Union county making
stops at Mosquero.and Gallegos and
from there to Clayton.
Both of them are making a fine
presentation of the issues of the
campaign. Mr. Bursum discusses the
constructive measures and policies
which New Mexico needs him to
carry intoeffect after the fine years
of lethargy which has characterized
the present administration and Prof.
Wagner in short and pointed ad
dresses presents what shoe'.! be done
to improve and promote the best
There are now in Quay county
interests of our schools.
They are now in Quay county
where they) -were joined by Lapt,
Albuquerque, accompanied the party
and served as Interpreter. A big dele
gation of citizens from Gallup and
other precincts of the rountv met the
train, where a sort of Informal recep
tion was held. The band playod an
Impromptu concert and many others
were attracted by the music This
band was the Navajo Indian organi
zation from the Crown Point school,
ac- and was returning hame on the same
train with the campaigners from Albu
querque, where an engagement had
been played at the fair, following
the reception at the depot, the band
then played for awhile In front Of
the hotel where the candidates were
quartered. Again at 7 o'clock the
band began and played until the open
ing of the meeting, a little after I
o'clock. The opera house In flallup I
a commodious auditorium, but there
were many who were unable to find
seats. They remained standing until
the close of the meeting.
Bursum made the opening nddresr
He eald In beginning that he was es
pecially happy to be In Oallup be
cause has was one of the pioneers of
McKlnlPy county. Twenty-sli yuan
before, he said, he had driven a 6
mule team between Wlngate anij Fort
Wlngate: that he bad furnished the
props for the mined of Oallup, then
In their infancy, and had voted for
the creation of McKlnley county, In
the legislature of iSflfl. With the
ceptlon of a short dlpcussion of na
tional matters, hn confined his ad
dress to state affairs.
Hubbell spoke of tariffs and other
national Issues. The present, prosper
ty In the United States, he rleelare''
Is due wholly to the great European
war. and is In spite of the TTnder
wood hill, not because of It. He solic
ited the support of the voters on the
eround that he knows Intimately the
business conditions of thn tote flnd
would be able to represent New Mex
ico understanding In We senate.
Wagner, making his first spoeeh of
the campaign, caught and held the at- ;
tenlion of the audience, uotwlthstand- j
Ing It was late when he bugnn epeak- j
ing. He was several linns applauded i
for his beliefs on school mat tern, j
Santa Fe Enthusiastic.
Santa Fe turned out an audi- j
enee Tuesday night which over-,
flowed the court house, liursutu con- j
tinued Iris convincing argument In fa-j
vor of good roads and unending Im
provement of the public sehools and;
state Institutions, as prime essentials!
in the best development ui tli state's
resources ant' ell i.ensliip. Col Jose P.;
Sena served as interpreter, llernan j
dez spoke on the national Issues. He
declared unequivocally that ho U in j
favor of suffrage for women. i
BRONSON M. CUTTING
ARRESTED FOR LIBEL
Bronson M. Cuting, president of
the New Mexican Prining Co., was
arrestea weunesuay on a warrant j
issuea oy justice ot me rcace Amos
Green of Socorro, on complaint of
Henry Dreyfus of that city.
Mr. Cutting gave bond in the sum
of $3000 for appearance at Socorro
on October 30th.
Mr. Dreyfus also brought suit for
$50,000 damages against Mr. Cutting
and the New Mexican.
The suits arc brought on account
of charges made hy the New Mexi
can that Mr. Dreyfus desecrated the
American Flag several years ago by
tearing it down and tramping on it,
which charge Mr. Dreyfus verv in
dignantly denies as being wholly un
truthful and false.
CALIFORNIA CAPITALIST
BUYS DEMING LAND
Thanks to the good work and in
telligent representation of Prof. D. S.
Rohbins, there is now interested in
the Mimbres Valley, one of the big
capitalists and real empire builders
of the West, Mr. Edwin T. Earl, the
mtilti-milionaire owner of the Los
Angeles express and Tribune, the
owner of several sky-scrapers and a
number of ranches and fruit farms
in California. Mr. Earl is a develop
er and builder that any community
might well be proud of and it is a
matter of much importance and inter
est that he has been induced by Frof.
Robbins and Vice-Consul G. M. Otis,
of Los Angeles to make large in
vestments in the valley.
In company with H. C. Neuschaef-
er, a prominent California who was
interested to the extent of 45 per cent
Gillenwater and Governor Giddings tne. a"e ?tate. Ia.na PT"
Bursum at the Fair.
Bursum was a regular attendant at
the fair, occupying a box with Mrs.
Bursum and Miss Bursum. The can
didate for the principal offices on
April, and Shirley Ward, one of the
bta California lawyers, Mr. tan sat
isfied himself that in the Mimbres
Valley is a mighty good place to own
land, his deal in taking over 42,000
both tickets also had boxes, but only of land east of the Florida, being
the Republican candidates occupied
theirs after the first day. Bursum's
visit to the various exhibits was more
than a mere trip of slight-seeing. He
was studying the resources of the sev
eral counties, -with a view to aiding
Intelligently in the work of develop
ment, after. he has been Inaugurated
the largest transfer between individ
uals in the history ot the valley.
The old syndicate has an applica
tion for the remaining 28,000 acres of
the 70.000 acres, formerly applied for
the 42,000 only being clear-listed.
The coming of these big men to the
Mimbres Valley means benefits un
told. Deming Headlight
A STATEMENT BY H. 0. BURSUM
To the People of New Mexico
I believe in the right of newspapers to criticize the acts of public officials and to pass
judgment based upon their records.
I believe it is right that newspapers should inquire into the fitness, the equipment and
the character of men who are candidates for public office, and that they should publish the
facts.
I have been averse to taking any action which might seem to restrict in any way the
fullest freedom of the newspapers of New Mexico to examine into and criticize my own of
ficial record and to pass upon my own fitnesjj as a candidate. For this reason I have
maintained silence over a number of years during which viciously untruthful and mali
ciously libelous attacks have been made upon me by newspapers influenced and control
led by my political enemies.
The Morning Journal of Albuquerque, owned by D. G. Grant of Los Angeles,
California, and managed by D. A. Macpherson of Albuquerque, has been most active in
this kind of assault upon me, both as regards my public acts and as to my private business
and personal affairs. The Journal's attacks began nearly ten years ago and have been
continued from time to time ever since. I have never known and do not know now any
reason for the peculiarly bitter and vicious hatred which these men appear to hold toward
me. I have had neither personal nor business relations with them and have never wrong
ed them. They have assailed me relentlessly, without truth, without honesty, without prin
ciple, without justice.
Originally the Morning Journal based its attacks upon me on charges brought against
me by political enemies to the effect that I had made wrongful use of the funds of the
Territorial Penitentiary during my service as Warden of that institution and that I had
destroyed or caused to be destroyed certain of the records of that institution.
Neither the political ppponents referred to nor this newspaper which published their
charges without substantiation or inquiry dared to bring their allegations into any compe
tent court. When these charges were made public I took the only course open to a citizen
who has been wronged. I sought trial in a court of justice and was there cleared of every
trace of suspicion of wrongdoing and my exoneration was written into the court records
of this state in a decree which found thatall records kept at the penitentiary during
my wardenship were in evidence and intact, and which decree gave me a judgment and an
execution against the Territory of New Mexico in the sum of $4,333,56, which sum the
court found to be due me in my final settlement with the Territory.
Five years ago I was nominated by the Republican party as its candidate for Gov
ernor of New Mexico in the first state election. The Morning Journal revived its form
er libelous publications against me and re-published them continuously during that campaign
with increased venom and added falsehoods. My friends besought me during that cam
paign to bring the owners of the Journal to account by the only means open to a citizen so
assailed proceeding in the courts. I refused to do this because I was averse to tak
ing any step which would lay me open to the charge of seeking to "muzzle" a newspaper,
or of using the libel law of this state to intimidate owners of newspapers opposed to my
election who might not be as substantially backed with money as is the management of the
Journal I believed, also, that the unreasonableness of these slanders, in view of the pub
lic court records in the matter, and the apparent malice with which they were published
would be clear to every unprejudiced citizen. I believed then and believe now that the
people of New Mexico did not believe me a thief and a destroyer of public records. I
have had no reason to change my opinion as to the general effect upon the public mind of
the publication of these slanders I know fnmi the returns of kmc and from personal
conversations which my friends have had with thousands of our citizens and which I have
had with hundreds of others of our people, that these charges were not believed by the
great mass of the people. I know that it was nut these libels which brought about my de
feat in Kin, but that it was due to a division among Republicans in two normally Re
publican counties which gave a vote against me sufficient to 'defeat my election.
I am convinced now that my friends who urged ine to act against this newspaper,
during the campaign of 191 1. were right and that I was wrong. I am again the candidate
of the Republican party for Governor of New Mexico. I know that my candidacy has
the approval and cordial support of all Republicans, as well as the heartiest and most ac
tive backing of my principal opponent for the nomination and of all his friends. I am,
therefore, the representative not of my personal interests and of a personal candidacy for
office, but I am the representative of a great political party, constituting in its membership,
as I believe, a majority of the people of our state.
The Morning Journal has once more renewed its false and libelous attacks upon me.
It has again charged that I am a corruptionist. that I falsified the accounts of the Terri
torial penitentiary and that I destroyed or caused to be destroyed the records of that ins
titution. -
The owner, the managing officer and the responsible editorial employes of the Morn
ing Journal know, beyond all possibility of doubt, that their charges against mc are false
and without pretense of foundation. The facts, supported by indisputable evidence, have been
laid before them. There is no chance of misinformation on their part and there is no pos
sible excuse upon any ground of ignorance. D. 0. Grant, the owner of the Journal, and D.
A. Macpherson, its manager, and its responsible editorial employes know that the state
ments they have caused to be printed in recent issues of the Journal, and directed against
me, are lies.
Those men know that not a cent of the prison funds during my wardenship remains
unaccounted for in scrupulous detail.
These men know that not only was there no shortage or misapplication of funds but
that the Territory, in a suit for final accounting which I caused to be brought, was found
to owe me $4,333.56, which sum was paid to me under an execution issued with the judg
ment given in open court and after a full public hearing.
These men know that no record of the prison kept during my wardenship has ever
been burned or otherwise destroyed, and that all such records were produced in court dur
ing the trial of the case above referred to and that all such records arc now safely kept
and available for reference.
I have not made this statement to the people of New Mexico before because I have be
lieved and now believe that you know the charges brought against mc by this newspaper
to be false and made for political purposes. I make this statement to you now simply be
cause I feel it is due to the people before whom I stand as a candidate, to tell you
frankly and fully about my attitude now and in the past before I proceed to punish this
newspaper for the wrong it has so persistently sought to do me. I shall now take the
only course open to a citizen who has been wronged ----- a proceeding in a court of
justice. The recent re-printing by the Morning Journal of the malicious . lies about me
makes it necessary now' that I act in my own defense, in defense of the party whose stan
dard bearer I am, and in defense of the honor and the peace of mind of those whose
welfare is dearer to me than any office or any political reward.
I have placed the above facts before you as clearly and as fairly as I am able to
state the facts in this case, and so that you will understand the reasons which have caused
me to instruct my attorneys, to file immediately a suit for $50,000.00 against D. G. Grant,
owner of the Journal, D. A. Macpherson, its manager and the Journal Publishing Com
pany, individually and as a corporation, for deliberate and malicious libel ; that my fur
ther instructions are that this suit be brought in the district court at Albuquerque, the
home of the Journal, and that it be pressed with all possible speed.
(Signed) H. O. BURSUM
Santa Fe, New Mexico.
October 12, 1916.
BUSINESS MEN OF
ROSWELL BACKING
MANY MASONS AT
LAS VEGAS FOR
ROAD BOND ISSUE! ANNUAL MEETING
BOOSTERS OF THE PSOOS;EEpIlESEI,IAI
VALLEY METROPOLIS ARE: ALL SECTI0NS 0F
PLANNING TO VOTE $100,.; aB ATTRACTED TOB
000 TO IMPROVE mOH.j AK UNUSUALLY PROFITA
WAYS IN CHAVEZ COUNTY, BlE smroN
Business men of Ro3wcll have t:i-' "
(ken steps toward a vote of a bond . ';;as. N". M., Oct. 10. Mem
issue of $100,000 for K.wl road, in! 'o'ot Ma"n,V fraternity from
j . t, , , , 'r' 'ho state f New Mexico
(Chaves county. The plan lias Iven nmnv of (!,,; .i.-omanicd hy their
j agitated for several weeks, and at a wi .es. an- l-r.- to attend the meet
i joint meeting of, tle Commercial " '-' n I K.dnc. which began
club and Retailers' association it was ! y r "I t-",rl;i y ""' "'" '" the quarters
decided to obtain a vote of the pc- "h! . m ; " V' A,' Krfnd
t , ... ., . ; ' l " '"'": temple. Des
ple on the proposition. The idea is im- ..V! v.cmiJht. which caused
j to Ret in adlitim to the money oh- 1 1 "llr' 'lM' "'" l the parade of the
, tained from the sale of the bonds ir
j potion of the fund available fri.m;.
!the federal government. !tK-i
No definite plans have been out
lined as to where the money will be
uliii-li was to have been
iv .iiti ni"im'i feature the
I "'i if I to ho enjoying
ot thrm v,a; ,,.ar, !() "knock"' the
W.vh. r th" town or an.knrf.
j spent, but it is understood the senti-j ", .,'
I ment favors a wide distribution of it! . !- "r'1,n'1 wi;I bc ses-
and with this amount it is thought ! 'sill!! Jv'a's hjhf yesterday 'monfingni
this plan will be possible. Th.? road, the M asonutemplc and was caled to
going to the southern port of the val-1 '"'l'-r hy Amos W. i'ollard, grand
I ley would likely come in for its share , "l;l"-r for Ntw Mexico. This marn
land this would be one of the least ex- JoiTl a?,CT. '
Mun winch hi'yan at 1U o'clock.
Considerably business nf vital
Wis crpf- cnniA rif tonti'.wi i..1 K K..I1- ! t'OrtatlCti to tilt M .1 ;On ir nrrlP
O " - MII'I lilt (JMlIt i " ' uuW If IU
of the rest of the money would prob- i , . l?nct y the grand lodge,
.iii. . . there was so great interest in
ably be spent on roads to the eastjiis serious full assemblage was re
and northeast. I ported, each lodtre in the sia h Amir
the visiting Masons and
pensive to build. The road connect
ing Roswell and Vaughn would like-
j", i urn, e-icil
This section of the county is with-j represented,
nt railrond fnrilinV ,,,1 ; i.J Last night
out railroad facilities and it is be-
lieved that good automobile roads ! r
would make it possible and practical: an entertainment provided by the
to establsh auto truck service which music and physical departments. The
would be of immense bnefit to the1 1;f,?s ?rtists' exhibit also was shown.
residents of the eastern part of the' 1,""'!t -;ipniaii lodge will hold
. 1 ""-.a Sliecl.ll romnmrlr i.,,, at ...i.;u
county, rn.s woul dalso allow Cha- mcnibcrs of the gran lodije will h
ves county to do her share of the
mnming of a road from here to Ken
na to connect with the road to Por
tales and Clovis.
The state highway fund is being
spent on the road going west from
Roswell and when it is finished ;t
will be one of the best highways in
. n. ...... trut ug
guests of honor. The third degree
win oe exemplified and numerous
notables among the Masonic brother
hood will be introduced.
On Wednesday morning! the visit
ors will bc taken for an automobile
ride about the city and to the beauty;
SI)Ot in fllf iirruttilinrr ..
Wednesday afternoon the final ses
sion of the grand lodge will be
the state With ft,., ov ,l,s"m 01 tnc ra,11 l0(lK will be
r (vide l -i . , additional held and on the same evening the
y "" e possimc itiKicr neiegates win he guests ot Chapman
the bond issue Chaves county would I 'l"'e at "'l'let at the Hotel Cas
be a network of good roads, which' ,;""'b-
it is thought would aid material'y in i " '''hursday the grand chapter,
the development of all nnrts of n, ; K"y, Ar'''1 M:.,so"-"- '"'' an-
i, , , " , - '"' meeting here, and on the fol-
u,j.i.j. It is thought that the vutcrs: lowing day the grand eommandery
:Ol the county would pic up a big Knights Templar, will meet. On Sat
maiotity in favor of issuing the itnlay the Ka-teni Star will hold its
bom:?. ' ' state assembly hero.
, Among tho-e present f . . r the event
, i"t Maiiie week are: W. Jacobs.
LIEUT. ANTONIO J. LUNA 'f Silv. r Htv: II. 11. Kdw.uds, ot
DIED AT EL PASO Matvi.il; J. I.aiuerhaeh. D. I..
, . ; ' .Wright. M. C. lircen, of Springer;
. '',0!1.'!' J- I.mia, son of Xfrs, Lola' bhn i, kvj of Dawson; H. D
t. Arnuj.) ot this city died at K -oMcnherg. A. W. lioUlenherg. J. S.
, t asn at 7:10 Monday morniiu'. 'Morton. S A. llarncs all of l'ucum
i. Lieutenant I.mia had been verv ill cari : M. W. Mills. Spritu-er: S. F
l tor the past two or three weeks.' but Mil'or and wife. Sprinter ; if. H.
it was thought by his friends that ! Mantes Tiieumcari : Charles Dennis.
I he was so young and hardy that he '. Mimbres : W. M. Wiegau-l. CuervO;
would Have no difficulty in rrcov-jK. T. Donoho. 1 urtimeari: H. K. Wal
.eringi, and they were greatly shock-iters and wife. Albuoueruue; E. E.
tLlJC"'VC thc "Cws of Uh Jsath'Studlev. Raton: S. Spit. Santa Fe :
,that mormng. ! ,. U. 'Wrt.th. M. !. Hiekev. J. D
'v, tiniVl r"sC iV". ,hp,"-v H'"xic0 Davidson. A. P.. McMiliei, and wit.-,
;bee, w I I ,aV Ma antl ,lad ('h''r1'- -V' '""'. Cameron, R
S s'.rt t, me when pcrv. C. A. Wright. Charles A.
d r IT,?,' iU 1'0",e"a"t."' e I..T..I.ke. II. Kmory Davis, 1 I.. Wil
ea,7 ri - w-Jn a"dt '"E m that i.an.n. V. R. Dreeman. John Mil,,".
fl - e,,7, f, takcVI!- , , . S 1. Ahr iham. . M. Vi'kery. J. l
citv ar -rr' ,r""'t M'V. W IV '-"en. B. I.. Wilteri
If u er, wn "B, ii ( day .I'0" 3"-' the ".! K'lwar.l .-;icl.,tt. of Alhunuer
mineral was held from the residence ti , , i u
of his brother. George W: Arrni p , "F
iiiesoay morning, ine interment , c i . , .- c. , , v, r
I was in the National cemetery. The S J"T r u C
funeral wns aitnn,!,.,! l. .sor-,:a.'. I-. t. ( am,, hell ot Silver
I all national guards and ex-guard's '" ' w1'
i fi, v i i... , ....... (,. Sems. !.)( , Mom
y,y v..,, anu u a i.uye nmnorr .
! Antonio l.vnt w, 2 fh c.-.,i r,t ,l,rt (utl
llatn Tr:mfii,il,'nn T,,;'s t.li.s a.- .1 1 I'l .1"!
las New Mexico delegate to con
gress several vears aeo. an, I nf Mrs
I.
ids'm-.;; V.
C. V. Wcl-
: T. A. K li'ers. Diwson J
ami J. Ktitnl, .:,'. Hurley;
:s!:.nv. IvO-wel1.
The Allvifpcnpie deK .;:i''",i has
ivnt.- cat c'nrterpfl '"r tiie trip.
(Lola C. Armi'jo. state librarian,' of "' ''' ri 1 ' 1 'irK : A- -
,-. 1 arlsb.i 1. det-
i:i!t-r: Alex C.obb-nVeri'.
cr.'iTi 1 senior warden ;
1 1 ant-1. S;.nia Fe, .rrraml
1 nior vardeu ; A. M ilov. A:b i-
.111 vp.iem
-i" ft') sccr.--
! tliis citv. He
survived, besidi s
...... ia is -s-iivoru. OCSl'i, S T 1
his mother, bv .1 sister. Mrs ri.ni ler ; Kieb..rd I
an n. Of A unrllo-nnA -in, 1,- t,.- 1 . i..::o
I brothers, Geo. W. Armiio. ot this ft cumca r
ititv. and Chaves Armiio. who is b'iibard
I with Comnanv V. at tlis horrlor
I . q-ieriite. cand tr'a-i
' REPUBLICAN CONVENTION A Kee: . ll,,i r ,:r
I IN RIO ARRIBA COUNTY my
The Republican county nominating RIFLE TE.M ON WAV TO
convention was held at Espanola JACKSONVILLE CONTEST
Tuesday and the following excelling The rifle team which wi!I rcpre
ticket, representing all parts of tae rent 'the New Mexico Nations!
county was placed in the field: li'mard at Jacksonville. Florida, shoot
State Senator, Perfecto Ksquibel: are now 01 their wav to take part
Representatives, Pedro Sala.or, Ma-; in the routes? beginning October 20.
nuel Sanchez, J R. Ortiz; Sheriff,; N,w Mexico crack shots made t.
C. T. Vargas; Treasure- and Col-: splendid record last year and it is
lector. Julian Amador; Co incy Clerk, thought they will be able to hold tt
Jose M. C. Chavez, Jr.; Assessor, and perhaps make a gain this fa!'.
J. Sanchez; School Superintendent, The personnel of thc team is:
P. II. Hill; Probate Judge, Kafaelj Captain J. D. Atwood. Artesia : Cap
Pena; County Commissioners, Silvia- tain V. V. Dean. Carlsbad: Captain
no Roybal, Juan Antonio Ulibarri, P. E. Dessauer, Las Crures; I.ieuten
Tobias Gonzales; Surveyor, W. G. ant W. R. Ames, I. as Cruces; Lier
Turlcy; Chairman County Central tenant Frank Ncwkirk. Artesia ; Lieu
Committee, Vences'ao Jaramillo. itcnan H. R. Miller, Clovis: Lieuten-
jant J. H. McHughes. Cerrillos: Color
It appears from the returns that ; Ser vant K. J. Feemster. Magdalena;
one J. V. Conwav is going right along First Sergeant A. D. Montoya. Santa
building school houses regardless of Fe: Sergeant I.. R Lilian. Las Vcga;
the political campaign he is suppus-1 William I". Collins. Carlsbad: Ser
ed t0 be giving his time and attcti-1 geant C F. Vernon, Portales; Cor
tion to. But come to think of it, geant G. F. Vernon, Portales; Cot
there may be better results in justiporal :. F. Raumhach, Carlsbad;
keeping right on building school , Corporal L. F.scudero, Santa Fe ; Cor
houses, and let the voters do theporal Hughes. Carlsbad; Private B.
campaigning. State Monitor. 4F. McCall, Artesia; Private Nestor L.
Ortega, Las Cruces; Sergeant VV. F.
TnA- l,-- .' . . 1. . O .. . . -. Its I
is to be opened soon in Springer,
whatever that is. If it is to confine
all the racket in one room then it
should be heartily welcomed by
every citizen of Springer. Stockman.
An enthusiastic democrat has writ
ten a magazine article on "Why
Businfsti Men Will Vote for Wil
son." But they won't and they hava
their own good reason).
