THE OWOSSO TIMES-
PAGES 1 TO 8
OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO, MICHIGAN. OCT. 13, 1916.
NO. 29
VOTE ON BUYING PARK
Question of Purohaae of Land Around
Armory Will Bo Decided
November 7th.
The city commission at its meeting
Monday decided to submit the proposi
tion to bond the city for $6,500 to pur
chase the land around the armory to
the people at the coming election Not.
7, in response to petitions presented
four months ago to have the matter
submitted at a special election in the
early summer. The commission did not
call the special election thinking the
cost would be too much.
Thompson Grooery Sold.
Geo. S. Dickson of Mt. Pleasant, has
purchased the L. H. Thompson grocery
business on South Washington street,
and will move to Owosso.
Owosso 10 Alma 0.
The Owosso high school foot ball
team won a hard fought battle from
Alma high Saturday, at Alma, the
score being 10 to 0. The second team
tied with Perry 6 to 6. Owosso plays
at Mt. Pleasant, Saturday.
Geo. S. Brown Re appointed.
Governor Ferris has reappointed for
a three year term; Geo. S. Brown of
Owosso, on the etate board of examiners
for barbers. He has been a good
official and has served as secretary and
president of the board very satis
factorily. Want "Y" at Corunna Avenue.
The Michigan Railway Co. has asked
for permission to install a 'Y" at the
corner of Corunna avenue and Wash
ington street. This will probably be
granted if the company guarantees the
extra expense and do not delay the pav
ing operations.
New Postmaster at Henderson.
" The post office department after many
months of delay has finally decided that
Henderson could have a postmaster
and has appointed Frank Lahman, who
. was the only applicant to take the civil
service examination and who was noti
fied several months ago that be passed
a creditable examination. He is well
qualified and with his experience in tie
office will see that the good service
given patrons of that office for a num
ber of years past is continued.
Makes an Easy $100.
Louis Pardee, turnkey at the county
jail, was out looking for auto speeders
Tuesday when he saw a man whom he
thought looked like some one whose
photo he had seen in the sheriff's col
lection. He hailed the man and finding
he had on prison clothes took him to
be Charles Eittenhouse, an escaped
convict from Jackson prison serying
time for larceny. Mr. Pardee is en
titled to f 100 reward for capturing the
fellow.
Colored Man Loses.
After two trial in the circuit court
and two appeals to the supreme court,
the case of Clarence D. Gaines against
the Grand Trunk Railway for 5,000
damages for injuries while working in
the yards at Durand is ended, the su
preme court having affirmed Judge Gil
day's ruling directing the jury to re
turn a verdict of no cause for action.
The accident happened In 1911, Gaines
being severely injured in the face by
the breaking of a gearing which he
offered to help fix.
Given $700 Verdict.
The jury in the case of Frances
Bluem, a Saginaw girl, against Almon
L. Chase of Owosso, for damages, re
turned a veidict for $700 in the circuit
court Oct. 5. after five hours delibera
tion. The girl was struck by an auto
driven by Mr. Chase as she alighted
from a street car. The suit was for
15,000 damages and was started over a
year ago, but was delayed by Mr.
Chase's injury by being struck by an
automobile on Corunna avenue during
the trial of the case.
MONEY ON A SHELF.
Rolls of Bills Which Was Reported
Stolen Mysteriously Returns (or Is
Found Where It Was Left )
The roll of bills amounting to $85
which Mrs. John Seckan claimed had
been taken from nnder her mattress by
her child and given to the five-year.old
son of a neighbor, Mrs. Joe Schreve
naugh, and kept by the latter, has been
found on a shelf by an open window.
Mrs. Schrevenaugh was at rested but
was discharged for lack of evidence and
may commence suit for damages for
malicious prosecution.
WANTED Tag Alder In carload lots.
Write for prices and specifications. E.
I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co , By
City. Mich. 2i
Helps Himself to Auto.
While the owner, Charles Robinson
of Morrlce, watched him. a thief got
into Mr. Robinson's automobile in front
of the Elks' temple Tuesday evening,
and drove the car away. Mr. Robin
son reported the theft to Under Sheriff
Sproule and an attempt was made to
follow the man but he had disappeared.
Aldert L Nichols,
Republican Candidate for County Clerk
of Shiawassee County.
First Congregational Church.
The First Congregational church held
a yery enthusiastic and satisfactory
annual meeting Wednesday evening.
The reports of the officers showed that
the church has never been in better
financial condition.
Total receipts of the trustees' fund
were over $3,000.00 tor current ex
penses. The Social Union, the Sunday
school and other organizations raised
for various purposes about $1,600 of
which a little over $500 was devoted to
missionary, benevolent and charitable
objects. The total raised for all pur
poses will reach $5,500 with a working
balance in the treasury of each organi
zation. Interesting reports were presented
by officers of the twelve departments
showing sustained and systematic work
and a broad range of interest in many
forms of church work and Christian
service ' . , - .,.v. -
W. A. SeegmlHer, clerk of board of
trustees, read the financial report
which was followed by the election of
three trustees. A. M. Bentley and J.
C. Shattuck were elected to succeed
themselves and W. A. Rosenkrans was
elected to succeed J. -B. Hurst who
asked to be relieved. Superintendent
R. N. Gibson reported for the Sunday
school and was unanimously re-elected
with a rising vote of thanks for his
efficient service. Mrs. G. T. Campbell,
treasurer of the Social Union, reported
a most prosperous year with large
earnings and yaluable social service.
Mrs. C. C. Duff and Mrs. Geo. Thomp
son spoke for the Woman's Missionary
society, Miss Mabel Morgan for the
Young Ladies' Mission Circle, Mary
Maude Thompson for the Girls' Mission
band, Rebecca L. Mattson for the
Junior King's Daughters, Mr. Seeg
miller for the Boy 8couts, Mrs. Mattson
for the Camp Fire groups, Miss Kate
Corlett for the Young People's Council
and E. P. Vandewater for the Benevo
lence Committee. The clerk's report
showed a marked gain in membership,
sixty-five having been received during
the year and a total of eighty for the
thirteen months of the present pas
torate. With the adoption of the trustees
budget a substantial increase was added
to the pastor's salary and unanimously
approyed. A number of repairs and
improvements to the church building
were provided for and others are in
contemplation later in the year. The
policy was approved to utilize the ex
cellent church plant to the largest
possible degree for many practical ac
tivities during the week days as well
as on Sundays. ,
The pastor's annual message in
terpreting the life of the church for
the past year was heard with great
interest and received with applause.
The following elections completed
the official working force: Deacon M.
H. Reynolds, deacon emeritus for life.
Deacons G. L. Taylor and J. I. Mellick
were re elected and R. R. Hart was
chosen to succeed Mr. Reynolds on the
active board. Mrs. M. W. Southard
was re elected deaconess. Clerk E. H.
Holmes, Treasurer E. P. Vandewater
and Trustees Treasurer M. W. South
ard were all re elected to their respec
tiye offices. The committee on music
is A. M. Bentley, chairman; J. C. Shat
tuck, Mrs. G. L. Cramer and E. O.
Dewey.
Arrangements were announced to
send a large delegation from the. Sun
day school to attend the county con
vention at Durand. A fine spirit of
progress, hopefulness and good will
marked this important meeting and the
church looks forward to a fruitful
year.
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
Annual Reports and Matters of Im
portance Considered.
The long session of the Shiawassee
county board of supervisors opened
Monday with eyery supervisor present.
The yearly report of County Treas
urer Richardson showing the expendi
tures and receipts monthly for the year
was read, and referred to the pommit
tee on settlement with the treasurer.
The report shows the funds to have
more than $10,000 more on hand than
at this time last year.
The report of Purchasing Agent
Nichols shows expenditures for office
supplies, postage, printing, etc., to be
$3,083. IS.
On Tuesday the board voted to appro
priate $500 to aid the Dorcas Home
during the year 1917.
A contract was renewed with the
Detroit house of correction to care for
prisoners for 70c per day, the contract
to run two years.
The county road commissioners' re
port showed $38,697.26 expended on
roads tbfs year with $15,942.33 received
in state rewards, and $11,177.76 received
from the automobile tax money.
Under the new roai assessment dis
trict law, 25 petitions have been re
ceived, covering 87 miles and hearing
on 15 of the applications held and
found necessary, covering 42 miles.
Five contracts have been let under the
new law, of which the county's ehare
of tax is $46,112 60. The rewards will
be $18,925. But $17,065 of the tax will
be spread this year. $7,300 of 6 per
cent bonds have been issued to secure
money to go ahead with the work.
Wellington Duffy was re elected jan
itor of the court bouse, Tuesday, at a
salary of $1000.
On Wednesday the buildings and
grounds committee made its report
showing 92578 expended this year,
$376.38 or which was in permanent im
provements at McCurdy park. The
total appropriated under this commit
tee's charge was $3,000.
; - The soldiers' relief commission made
its reports showing S210 spent of the
$250 appropriated.
King Daughters.
The closing session of the King's
Daughters convention Friday, was one
of the most interesting of the week.
Iley. J. F. Green conducted devotional
service, after which committee reports
were received and acted upon and
officers were announced as the result of
the ballot. Miss Reah Buckley rendered
a piano solo and Mrs. Norman Form an
of Mt. Clemens, conducted a quiz. Mrs.
C. A. Bishop took chorge of the vues
tionbox. Officers elected are: President,
Mrs. J. B. Lewis of Detroit; vice pres
ident, Mrs. Dewiit Hunt of St. Johns;
recording secretary, Mrs. C. A. Bishop
of Flint; corresponding 'secretary, Mrs.
W. A. Seegmilier of Owosso; chairman
of hospital fund, Mrs. W. W. Brace of
Ann Arbor; members of state board,
Mrs. H. D. Wilson of Jackson, Mrs. A.
A. Patterson of Flint, and Mrs. George
Thompson of Owocso. The memorial
and consecration service was conducted
by Mrs. P. Conn of Durand, closing a
most successful and helpful convention
in the history of the Michigan branch.
Thursday eyening Rey. W. R. Blach
fold offered prayer and 'Mrs. Frank
Kohler rendered a piano selection. R.
N. Gibson sang "Adore and Be Still,"
and both were encored.
Dr. Herbert L. Willett's address on
"Women and the World's Work," was
one of the most forceful and instruc
tive addresses ever given in this city,
and was most thoroughly appreciated
by the large number who heard it.
Interesting facts were brought out in
connection with the reports of the state
secretary and treasurer at the meeting
Thursday morning. There are at pres
ent 74 circles in the state of Michigan
with a total of 2,694 members. The
reports of 60 of the 74 circles show
$9,201 was paid out last year for char
ity. The state treasurer was paid
$1014.20, and out of that sum $741 was
expended by her. Four new members
were received into the order Thursday
afternoon, two of them being Owosso
women. There were 190 voting dele
gates present at the convention and 220
visitors and 236 were seated at the sup
per Wednesday evening.
Normal Class Organizes.
The Shiawassee County Normal class
has organized for the year with the
following officers: President, Miss
Anna Mason; vice president, Miss
Hazel Schmid; secretary, Miss Catherine
Weber; treasurer, Miss Nellie Leather
man. Members of the class were enter
i tained Thursday evening by Mist
, Weber. A pot luck supper wan served
and games and music were among the
diversions.
TEMPLAR DAY.
Parade and Drills by Seven Command-
erias Knights Templar Make
Pleasant and Profit
1 able Day.
Over two hundred Knights Templar
representing Lansing, Ionia, St. Johns,
Corunna. Ithaca, Howell and Owosso,
took part in the field day parade and
drill at Owosso Friday. The visiting
Knights arrived during the forenoon
and after dinner at the new armory
served to four hundred Knights, ladies
and citizens, the parade was formed at
Fayette square in charge of Grand
Marshal E. S. Rankin assisted by Ad
jutant Knight J. O. Parker of Owosso,
and S. H. Jones of Lansing, and seven
aides, one from each commandery. The
passion cross was formed and pass
ed Grand Commander Aldrlch, Grand
Prelate Rev. Emil Montamus, Grand
Standard Bearer R. G. Browns(n,
Grand Recorder G. T. Campbell
and Grand Treasurer C. H. Pomeroy,
at the corner of Washington and Masnn
streets, after which the parade con
tinued to Athletic park, where the
commanderies passed in review before
Grand Commander Aldrich. Following
this the commanderies were massed and
Grand Prelate Montamus offered a
prayer for universal peace. Exhibition
drills followed which were most excel
lent and highly enjoyed by the hund
reds of spectators'.
After returning to the armory supper
was served. Music by the Owosso com
bined band of twenty-five pieces, and
dancing were enjoyed until the de
parture of the visitors.
m M m
CIRCUIT COURT.
Judge Miner Monday, made an order
releasing Andrew Frederickson, of Mus
kegon, from jail. Frederickson has been
c oi. fined for the past two weeks because
of failure to pay alimony. The court
ordered Frederickson to pay $1.50 a
week for one year, starting Jan. 1, 1910,
for the support of his son, Earl Freder
ickson. Frederickson was back $170. He tes
tified in court Monday that he did not
know for six years that he was sup
posed to pay alimony. He has a wife
and three children in Muskegon and is
crippled as a result of a railroad acci
dent. Two young men were released from
probation Monday. They were Floyd
Haggertv of Laingsburg, and La Verne
Johnson of Bancroft, who violated the
local option law two years ago. The
court acted on the recommendation of
the county probation officer.
A motion for a new trial was made
in the slander case of Guy Rohrabacher
against Larkus Ash of Laingsburg. The
court denied the motion. Mr. Rohra
bacher sued for $5,000, alleging that
Mr. Ash said that he stole a load of
brick. The jury returned a verdict of
no cause of action.
Foreclosure was taken in the case of
George Peach against William Sims, et.
al., of Bancrpft. Mr. Peach holds a
mortgage of about $700 on a building
used as a moving picture house" in Ban
croft. Mr. Sims whereabouts are un
known. The property will be sold Nov.
1, 1 916, if the mortgage ia not paid by
that time.
"Around the World Boys" Home.
Irving Scbultz and Joe Collard, the
Offobso boys who left for a trip around
the world Sunday and were picked up
by police in Chicago are back in school
in Owosso. The trip was to be made
on $72 found by one of the boys and
which it is claimed was lost by Charles
Drewes. The boys had $43 left when
they were picked up by officers. Young
Schultz wrote to 'his mother from
Grand Rapids and from Chicago.
"Home Rule" That Is Not True To Its Name
The hope of the wet forces in this
state is to befog the voters by having
the so called "Home Rule" proposition
snbmitted November 7.
Now this proposed "Home Rule" is
nothing but a scheme to disfranchise
the farmers of Michigan in settling the
question of "saloon" or "no saloon.'
If It carries, then each village and city
in this state will decide by vote of the
people who live within its limits wheth
er or not saloons will be licensed with
in that city or village. A more unjust
or nnfair proposition could not be con
ceived. That proposition carries the idea that
only the people who live in a village or
city are concerned or have a right to
be concerned about whether saloons are
Therefore every one who wants a dry Michigan should vote
X "Yes" on State Wide Prohibition, and
X "No" on Wet Home Rule.
There is a Real Difference
Cream of tartar, derived from grapes,
is used in Royal Baking Powder because
it is the best and most healthful ingredient
known for the purpose.
Phosphate and alum, which are de
rived from mineral sources, are used in
some baking powders, instead of cream of
tartar, because they are cheaper.
If you have been induced to use baking
powders made from alum or phosphate,
use Royal Baking Powder instead. You
will be pleased with the results and the
difference in the quality of the food.
ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO.
New York
Hughes in Saginaw and Flint.
Charles E. Hughes, republican candi
date for president, will speak in Sag
inaw Thursday morning, Oct. 19th, and
at Flint at noon on the same day. This
will give Shiawassee people an oppor
tunity to hear him at one point or the
other.
Bert S. Griffix,
Republican Candidate for Sheriff of
Shiawassee County.
State Wide Prohibition.
M. J. Fanning, a noted temperance
speaker for forty years or more, ad
dressed a well attended meeting held in
New Haven. Monday afternoon under
the auspices of the W. C. T. U, He
struck telling blows against the attempt
of the "wets" to foist "home rule" on
the people of Michigan.
On Wednesday next, beginning at
10:30 a. m. in the First M. E. church,
this city, the County Committee for
State wide prohibition will hold an
important conference. H. H. Rood of
Lansing, district superintendent, will
be present, together with the members
of the committee and other workers
from all parts of the county. Luncheon
will be served at noon by the ladies of
the church.
Hon. II. R. Pattengill of Lansing,
better known as "Pat," will speak in
the M. E. church at New Lothrop on
Wednesday evening, Oct. 18th. It is
useless to say that the message will be
well worth hearing as few men in Mich
igan are his equal as convincing oratorp.
Application ha been 'made bv Eail
Martin of Victor township, Clinton
county, to have his mother, Mrs. Ann
Martin of Laingsburg, examined as to
her sanity. She talks almost constantly
and has made threats against neighbors.
allowed there or not. That is a mon
strous perversion.
Hundreds of farmers living iu Shia
wassee county are just as much con
cerned and have just as much right co
say whether saloons shall be allowed in
Owosso as the residents of this city.
They come to this city to market their
products, and do their trading. They
send their children to our schools. They
and their children have to face the
temptation of the saloon quite as much
as if they lived here. "No man liveth
to himself." No community liveth to
itself. The quality of life in Owosso
it vital to the people surrounding this
city. That is jast as true of Corunna,
Durand, Bancroft, Perry, Morrlce,
Laingsburg. Byron, Vernon, as it is of
' f ' "-if
M : WW
5 "''Ah
REPUBLICAN MEETING
Senator C. E. Townsend addressed a
fairly good audience in the armory last
evening despite the hard rain just at
the time for the meeting to begin.
While it was his first address in the
campaign and he was physically not
able to speak and did so against the
advice of his doctor, he gave a short
but unusually effective talk. He riddled
the claim of the democrats that Pres.
Wilson has kept us out of war and said
if any one should be given credit along
this line it was the Germany Emperor;
however, it was his belief that Germany
never had any idea of making trouble
for this nation, and now wishes1 to
continue the pleasant relations which
have always existed, except that when
the war is over Germany will probably
enter into a first-class conflict with us
for the American markets the best in
the world. He was also quite severe in
criticising the Administration for the
situation which exists and has existed
for many months regarding Mexico and
did not hesitate to state that with a man
iu the office like Mr. Hughes or any
good American with some determi
nation and who did not alter his views
and policy with every new eun, that
Mexico would be better off and that the
TJ. S. would not be on unfriendly terms
with that country. Mr. Wilson's un
certain attitude on almost every matter
of importance had been and would con
tinue to be to the disadvantage of this
country if he should be re elected be
cause be had been on both sides at some
time while he had been in office, citing
a number of instances to substantiate
his charge. County Chairman Collins
presided at the meeting.
Owosso Lodge of Elks started the fall
and winter working season by initiat
ing two candidates Tuesday evening,
Dr. C. A. Sackrider of Owosso, and
Herbert Bailey of Corunna. A banquet
with a short program followed, N. R.
Walsh presiding. A. L Nichols gave a
report of bis trip to the Grand Lodge
at Baltimore, Earl Rexford sang, and
Hugh Nichols spoke briefly.
Miss Frances Jones was in Lansing
attending the library convention, Wed
nesday. She also witnessed "Experi
ence" at the Gladmer theatre.
Nina Moore of Shiawassee township,
has been ordered by Judge Bush to be
taken to the University hospital for
medical treatment.
Ow.isjo. If a saloon is a hurtful thing
as we all know it Is, it hurts the people
surrounding tho village or city where
it exists as much as it does the inhab
itants of the city or village. Thetefore
the people of the country surrounding
a village or city have as much right to
vote on whether it shall license saloons
as have the people of the city or vll
lage. Thus the so called "Home Rule" of
the wets is not noma rule at all. It
just means whiskey rule of the worst
kind; and we all know how they would
colonize voters to force towns to go wet.
It is just a bold, brazen scheme to dis
franchise the farmers of Michigan, and
give them no voice in a matter in which
they are as much concerned as are town
and city folks.
