At Chicago June 71
One of the greatest political 1i G
eONVentions in -our history 3
meetn. - Its atonh 4nd scus I Wh5.
sin ilbe T I IItey or
tryed by a, staff of America's
foremost writers:H neC n
-NO. 3516. WEATHER-FAIR. WASHINGTON. D. C., SUNDAY, JUNE 4, 1916. ___ONE CENT.
G.o 0. P. PLATFORM
WILL DENOUNCE
FOREIGN POLICY
Republican Convention to De
clare Wilson Has Humiliated
U. S. in Eyes of World.
TO URGE PREPAREDNESS
Universal Military Training
Will Be Advocated, Leav
ing Details to Congress.
SUFFRAGE PLANK IS LIKELY
Administration to Be Scored for Hand
ling of Tariff-Big Merchant
Marine Will Be Favored.
*By the an News Service.)
'hicago. June .-A bitter attack oT, th1e
forign policy of the Wilson administra
tirn. notably in its dealingF with iexico.
and a plank ndorsing the proposition of
twnie-al 1, tary training, "ill be the
cutstandti "haracteristics of tie plat
form that will be adopted in the Repub
hean national onvention next week.
Indications are that the code of prin
crp'es to be presented to the voters this
2ear by the Republican party will be as
progressi e in tone. spirit and purpose as
Co!. Rooseve!t and hfs Progressive fol
lowing would ha'e it
The platform will be written in the first
instance b:. Senator Lodge, of Massachu.
betts. assisted by S-nator Boral. of Iowa.
F.aeh is fairly representative of the two
factions of the party. Mr. Lodge is a
conservative. wbo is willing to make con
cessions to th- Progressives. As a Pro
gr-ssive. Mr. Forah has always exhibited
a disposition to meet the conservatives
half way
Preparedness Plank.
The recommendation to be made for
universal military training. of course. will
be embodied in the plank on prepared
ANes. This plank 1 ill be just as definite
as ft is possible to make a declaration
of that kind in a political platform. It
will propose an adequate navy, a larger
standing army, the creation of reserves
for both services and "military training,
as distinguished from "military service.
Leaders are careful to point out that
the convention will not indorse enforced
"militarv service " Therefore, the plank
will propose *military training." the
method to be left to the discretion of
Congress
The plank treat'ng of the Wilson for
eign' plicy probably will be the most
vigorous in tone of any declaration in
the platform It v5 lI charge that in hi,
dealings with European belligerents the
President has shown the same timidity
and lack of purpose that he Is held to
have exhibited in his relations with the
various factir's in Mexico and the pres
int gocernnit in that country. Re
publrcan leaders are convinced that the
country disapprotes Nti. Wilson's main
policy and this will be handled without
gloves. It 6ill be rienounw-d as having
placed the United States in a humiliattlr
position before the world, and as weak
Cing the representations made by this
government in its negotiations with Ger
many and other European belligerents.
A tart reference will be made to Mr.
Wilson's "too proud to ight" phrase.
Nay Back Woman oagrage.
There is a strong possibility that the
Republican platform may carry a plank
favorable to equal suffrage. Senator
Borah comes from Idaha where women
have voted for years. and he is an earn
est ads ocate of the principle.
In the tariff plank reference will be
made to the action of the Democratic
organization of the House of Represent
atives in going on record for a nonparti
san tariff commission and protective du
ties on dyes. The argument will be made
that the Democrats are now trying to
steal the "protection" thunder and that
if the country would cope with the trade
Competitioni from Europe that is bound
to follow T'ith the close (If hostilities.,
il must entrust the Republicans with the
duty of revising the revenue laws along
traditional Republican lines.
A strong declaration will be made for
an American merchant marine large
erough to handle American commerce
and to provide an adequate reserve for
the navy In case of war. The govern.
inent ownership rhipping bill now pend
ing In Congress with the indorsement of
g the administration, will be denounced in
unsparing, terms.
Kitchin Probably Renominated.
*Raleigh. N. C.. June .--Unofmcial re
ports early tonight indicated the renom
ination by a large majority of Repre
sentative Claude Kitchin, majority leader
in the House, in today's North Carolina
Democratic primaries,
-Memphis for Preparedness.
Mfemphis. Tenn.. June a.-Memnphis to
day declared her preparedness with a
parade in which 30,000 men mnarched,
headed by two former secretaries of war.
Gen. Luke E. Wright, of Memnphis, aund
J. M. Dickinson. of Nashville.
eS,8 TO CHICAGO AND RETL'RM'.
Bltimore and jhio, June 2 'to 6;Vlid
seturning until -lst, account R~epubli
can National Convention. Four through
solid steel trains, electrically cooled
and lighted, with dining cars, leaving
Washington morning. noOn. evening
and nhig.tAdLv
~'h
II
THE HELME]
T. R. PUZZLES Morale of Brit
G. 0. P. HEADS Splendid, Sa
Leaders Won d e r Whether In Great S
Roosevelt Will Indorse
Hughes or Wage Fight. L.
COLONEL IS NONCOMMITTAL; 'I te N'
General Headquarters. British Armio
PERKINS KEEPS SILENT, TOO in Fra e. Mjay I.- t is not an Am
- matter for a reporter to reach these r
(By the som News service.I g1ons. During the first year and a ha
Chicago, June 3.-Will Col. Rosevelt of the war. only two neutral correspo
and the Progressive party indorse Asso- dents were permitted to see anything
clate Justice Charles E. Hughes? the British front. with the possible e
That is the question about which the ception of the Italian, the most "e
situation in regard to the Republican clusive' front in Europe. But in th
Presidential nomination is now turning. matter the Briton simply reveals his n
Big leaders in the Republican party ac- tional character. The I-nglishman
knowledged today that if it became evi- traditionally reserved. if not a little co
dent that Justice Hughes would be ac- to strangers. le does not invite yo
ceptable to Col. Roosevelt and the Pro- to his home or his club the first time I
gressives, he probably would be named, meets you, but when the invitation dot
But if Col. Roosevelt and his follow- Come you find his hospitality most d
era make known in advance their deter. lightful. and all your earlier estimatc
mination not to accept Mr. Hughes, a of him go by the board.
scramble in the Republican tonvention is And so it is with his battle line.
predicted that will finally resolve itself expected. after reaching heahquarters,
into another bitter fight between the for
mer President and the so-called Old Guard
leaders of the party.
The situation in regard to the Repub
lican nomination has, therefore, now de
veloped into one practically of waiting Flag D a
orthe first definite sign from Air. tooe-Fla:
velt and the Progressives as to their at
titude toward Hughes.
The Republican leaders have tried to Five hundred amateur baseball plays
get together on some other candidate, of the District may march in uniform
notably Elihu Root, of New York, or Washington's preparedness parade
Philander C. Knox. of Pennsylvania, with June 14, to demonstrate that athieti
a hope of obtaining Progressive indorse- make better American citizens.
ment. but up to the present all efforts T is udrtoo tha Roer liv.u
in this direction have failed and severalprsdnofteAaurBeblA
of the prominent leaders are acknsowi- scaino h itit scniel
edging privately that the drift seems to cligam'igo h soito
be inevitably toward Hughes. Salig.na ~utet n
As to Col. Roosevelts own candidacy sresnrhet al hswe otn
it has made no substantial headway u h rpsl
among Republican leaders, and develop- M.Yugblee httepyi
ments thus far indicate that any efforttrlnzoevrAeicniiens
to push the Roosevelt boom through theesntatodesestemnuau
Republcan convention will meet with o rsadamnto.Tecpa
bitter opposition on tbe part of old time admngr fautme ftash
leaders,.xrse hi prvlo h ln
While all eyes here are now eagerly AaerBsblAsoitnh
turned toward the Colonel and the Pro-tit-w lbwt na-rg
gressive camp, those in the confidence ofeitenmnoteta.Inditn
Mr. Roosevelt know that be is yet abso -_________________
lutely uncommitted in regard to the sit
uat ion. h emnSeaesTreo
The question was put aquarely up to, elnvaSyii iees.Jn
GerFiveristdy ahrorntTe n eameurs hasebeen play
othe Poesve wol acetJse eDoe isthout maw argof he un difr
Wsindctdta ewsntytpeae ngton' rpaedns ers, itpaas
tosytaJhurgrsie pdnttn 1 to demonsrae thatedthdeti
makebeter merian itiens
Sp.aling's,.. na rutet n
3.
.0,/
IN THE RING!
ish Army HAMMER HARD
ys Balderston ATFORTVAUX
tory from Front ,ermans Reach Ramparts on
itor fr m Font East Side of Meuse,
hc treated nwith perfeIt courtesy and Says Paris.
shown as little as pos.ible. The red
tape encountered on the way out here CROWN PRINCE TAKES DEEP
Made me despair of spending my days DITCH IN FRONT OF FORT
with the armies otherwise than in un
if dergoing constant cross-examinations.
Before leaving London. I had a most Londthe Junem dv the Ger
comprehensive pass, signed by the ad
jutant-general of the British armies and M s hr s rnceo the eats of
countersigned and stamped by the pro- Fort Vaux
vbst marshal. which was sent to Lon
don from headquarters. and in spite
and in the hands of the French. but an of
is of this and other powerful persuasives ficial communication issued in Paris ad
d my passport before I left Boulogne for i
u the interior showed nine separate and deep dit h Immediately before the po.
varicolored Indorsements, mementoes of sittor.
as many little sessions with officials. This latest gain. which was made dur
When the motor which met the boat had
sa halted before a bar across the road just
out of the town. and the officer on the
front seat had conferred with the men-ight official statement issued in Par
frankly enumerates the adances maie
0 CONXTiNUED O-PAf s6", ELno. by the Gemuans. In review of the weekr
fighting.
The statement adds that during the end
of the day the Germans made no at
an to Join tempt to ad'ace from the ditch si
tions the now hold. That their attacks
D em onstration Ion the fort Itself sill be made at night,
is the opinion of military experts.
The Germans attacked on a consider
able front, penetrating the British line
these. 1Tr Young believes at least I for almost half a mile.
nl nnifermed men could be mnustered into An official report of the attack received
,f line from independent teams and neat- tonight from the headquarters of Gae.
s by colleges. bir Douglas r aig. commanding the Brit
The House, it is expected, will act I sh fores In Frsnce. states that the
~, favorably tomorrow morning on the jointgraeprtoth lotrun wsre
m- resolution, making June 14, the day of atrdb Cnaan eim ts na
g the parade, a legal holiday in the Dim-st- n one tak
it trict. When the resolution, which has___________
F esiready been passed by the Senate, is DyeSist i aeet
te approved by the House. plans for the Ne Yok Juei-chl rci
parade will take on new life. The resolu- Dyeo hldlha h is mn
ii tion wili close all gov-ernmenst departments,
La banks and trust companies, This wilt a asrt aepr na nls
e permit hundred. of eager government oioth AmrcnlnriPut
ms :lerks to take part.da toataasciecunlfrSr
e Autemnebite Unit5 Piammed. oeCamnt
President P. T. Moran. of the Chamber
Sof Commerce. announced last night that Dee teDsDrig ern.
___________________________onThe coteset fordds sat ergte eand
o ted beay r the natmanade comit
seet in irih inte oladie foay the ditc os
-Clsu. hcao Jne -Ro eton thaeyod nowhlTatinl epbca thelgateak
-. wn hi fist sirmih o thenat on t fro aom dited wil tie maese anht,
.h committeetmeeinpithos afterlonawhenperts.
The byeamatesofttactked.otha bdyndecire
.t ennttobrrldlgae ft e rnt ernetatn thrae Bridh.ie
Ffth ongrssioal dstrit ofOkl h frorc~e. in 1 Frane taTht the
greater eti herilae n h on prof mathed ios agron dasre
- ven~captured.by.Canadian regimentssin a
strn one tak
NEARLY 10,0(
LOST IN G]
BATTLE, I
Britain Sacrifices 5,0(
Losses Range fron
Officers i
150 WARSHIPS
London Admits Loss of Fourt,
and Declares Same Numi
Sunk-Three Int
fay the Iuternatiei
London, June 3.-Between 8.0(
naval battle in the North Sea, the gr,
loss, the British sustained 5,000. The
3,000 and 5,000 lives.
Two British rear admirals-Hoc
their ihips.
It is estimated that 150 warships
British official statements admit t
tonnage of 125,500. These include
cruisers, and eight destroyers.
BRITISH STILL
CONTROL SEAS
Churchill Says Britain De
pends Upon Super-Dread
noughts for Supremacy.
NIGHTFALL SAVED GERMANS
FROM DEFEAT, HE DECLARES
fay the IsteruattIeas Meses %ervice.
London. June 3.-The pr-er. bureau to
night Isued the following statentvnt
made by Winston Churitlil. -.ho as
first lord of the admiralty at the begin
ning of the war:
"The naval supremacy of the W'Mr
fleet, in capital ships. deren% f z
super-Dreadnought armed wid i .'d ih
and 1.-inch guns and these are .fficient
in themseives to maintain control of the
sees. Of these vital units of tn. rt-i
rank A. lost only one. the Queon Mary.
There appears no doubt that the ';er
mans lost at least one comparahle shi1
if this be the Lutzo" or Iorfflinger. tle
vessel is a heavier lO-. to ;.rmian: a
tually and relatively than l th' Queen
Mary to us.
"Coming to esseels of the erord otfr.
we lost the Indefatigable and Insnibl-.
These are of an entirely different cli
from the super-Dreadnoughts and. val
uable vessels as they are, do not rank as
primary units at the present time. A
Dreadnought battlehlip of the u i
phalen type would be a loss 1ompar-a'le
to either.
"The hazy weather. the fall of night.
and the retreat of the enern amn fris
trated the persevering efforts of our
brilliant commanders. Aimiral Sir John
teilcoe and Admiral Sir David Beatty, to
force a final decision.
"All classes of vessels on both side,
have now met and we know there are no
surprises and unforeseen featurts. An
accurate measure can be taken of the
strength of the ene ny. This definite in
feriority has freed any el-ment of un
certainty.
Fear T.R.May Run
On Third Ticket
(37 the Internatieasl News e ilev.i
Oyster Bay. June 1.-Col Roievelt wi1l
not go to Chicago unless sonie situation
not now foreseen forces him to make
the trip.
It .a not news to those close to him
that the Progressives are restive and may
Insist upon acting without waiting for
the Republican convention It was indi
cated fully a week ago that Col. Roose
velt himself held the belief he might
not, under certain conditions. be able to
control the Progressive convention.
All the news from Chicago indicates
that such a situation may rapidly be
shaping itelf up. For six months the
Progressives have watched the Old Guard
,leaders moving the convention to suit
their own plans. They saw Senator Hard
ing selected as temporary chairman, de
spite his well-known reactionary ten
dencies.
It has been known here for a week that
there is grave danger of a third tUeket.
That danger was not lessened any by
the triumphant progress of Rloosevait
through Chicago, Kansas City, and At.
Louis, net to mention the demonstration
in his honor at Newark last Thursday
Iune Given Seven Years.
Atlanta. Ga.. June 3.-Victor E. ines
this afternoon wAas found guilty of tar-.
ceny after trust in connectio~n with the
disappearance of Mirs. Eloise Neims Den
n ie and her fortune. He was sentenced
to seven yeats' imnprisenment.
London. Jun. 8.--The BritIsh steamship
*fegrove. '3,818 tes,. has been sunk by
ua&an e. he was nearm.___
10 LIVES
REAT SEA
ONDON SAYS
)0 Souls and German
1 3,000 to 5,000
md Men.
IN BIG FIGHT
:en Vessels of 125,000 Tons,
er of Teuton Ships Was
rior Explosions.
tuE News Nerllee.i
and 10.000 i wC ',ere lost in the
!atest in the world's history. 04 4his
German loss is estimated at between
d and Arbuthnot-went down 'ith
were engaged in this struggle.
'e loss of fourteen ships with a total
three battle cruisers, three armored
I.ermana LOst F.Oereen tbtpp.
The Brit ' c aim 1ti' Germant l's
fourt ern etp,-tso battleshpF f:
rusers, ,.x de.troer- and a r
boat Not 'ncludm t'l cr er . hi h
ar, unidrntilfed tIh, total tonnage oI the
German h'ps lot-t w ai 4
Grman e'tiana' o7 tih' Fri I tennage
de,.tro ed plac- it .t 1 : to", i
Germans, admit t-r oes. of shi;, talm;
A-e tn t
Ae'-ordmgrt to a a ol-i,. d,'rs''h "N i
has been pked GP f-1e. 1 , '-rrmar
adniral, admit, the !'a of the tiat:
hip. 1 -stpalen.
T:! mort .surrrln re,-- Ir th- c
nas I "e admisswtn 'of the Fri'-i
admir;!it' that the entire briti9
fleet waz 'ntaged in baltr' Ain'.
Beatt- it, omran.I r the
squadron, had a yi nth b~e le'd no
a field of mtiyne Hip call ft hser v '
answered b: Admiral JeUieoe %itt 1
rain fleet.
Interior raplosen...
The stat't',er.t o" t - Prti> ad -
today ta
' The tth .s
owing I tie fart thtL t F-,.
b'attl--cruite, I en up fry 'er'
pioe-ion:
Th- Brttr " Ma o g't a
ncrt h.aarm- toe'-e' - ' d
thrie of the n, t :, , 't e
tut d-I 'lt t , da'ag, e ,- te
Narlor; Ch a n t ahe po
' Admiral ,eaty a.l - nl he p *e
sent to the tBritiih nr , 'jen- :
1 rought .A':ntmi Je2' o- and arn utkn o
nlumber of Fitish, ,hiv; to Itk, sc(nr
"The mam battle ith er.e. -'
Britlth bat Ih tb y". rer 's e'ai-r-t
alh ;ernAn hattle.hips IradnOm
against rlreadnought ltu--ng ti pa-.
of the i.ttle the tre. s lost w Ilea"
' Admiralt, Beatt, nt :hen forced
retire his cour e to the or " sea Th; -
the ttuati-n u:eteodr iti th. G+-na
battleshits and bat' ''uner-, ?Izh -z
aga: t Brlt,,h battle e -ner
Ship.s Hiding In Mist.
"When Admiral Beat: rdeavored
e ut of' the Ge-mans from retreat he its
Covered the flct of Ge' -mn batte'ip,
on hi left. whcr.' the had len hidin
belod German battle -uters 'o , mit
'-At thi, tage of the battle thr Br:t'rlh
were outnumberr-i ti the - mar P
'Tbe Germa2 had no *u-prises The'
were no severteen-Inch pun. , e'dere
There was mu one Zrpr 2 b e
L-4. and thi, was tJured and retired
"Thus the foor phares acre comprier
first of Admiral Beatt; s attempt to ev'
off the kic: mans, re,ond. his force.] -
tirement to the opn sea b apptearance
of German battleshit. when it 1t0 2
%ere iutnumbered for a tmir tied. t'e
arrival of the main British fleet utn'e -
Admiral Jelltec % hen it became Daa'
nought against Lreadnought. and tout'
a retirement of German forces in the 'a.
of the British attacks"
Germans Blew Up
Own Sinking Ship
(37 the Internatteaal New, !'ervice.i
Berlin. June 3 'via Anmsterdam' --IThe
admiralty tonIght oimetati' admitted t'
boaa of the vimll cruiter Elbing, a' the
same time reiterating Its p'r'vious sta.'
ment that the entire British floct w a, m
action in Wednesday's North Sea battl'
The Itibing was not deetroyed by Bit1
iah gun fire. Instead, during maneur ering
in the fog, the little cruiser name ttn cr
llsion with other units of the Germtan
Beet and was1 badly damaged
Her commanders thereupon deelded tt
blow' her up. Alt of her crew ex'-ept the
commnder, two oither offcers, and
eighteen meat. were put oft in boats. The
chip was then destroyed. the twenty-three
men later beirg brought in to Tumident.
Holland. by a tug. which had picked
them up, according to ioformation reach.
ing the admiralty.
RIe te Phlajelphia. J3.3 te M
tar. $2 Wilmingtn and return. Batti
more & Ohio nday, Jga 11. 7gs &
m. gesagn ame da.-&A..
