THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow; light west
winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 67; lowest, 58.
Detailed weather, mall and marine repot ts on page 19.
VOL. LXXXiri. NO. 278.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, JUNE 4, 1916. Copyright, 1916. by fhc Sun Printing and PublUthlng Auociallon.
64 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
MOOSE HOLD
KEY TO HUGHES
NOMINATION
Republican Chiefs LtMik fori
Sign That Progressives
Would Accept .Jurist.
BOTH PAKTIKS NOW
PLAY WAITING GAME!
O.O. P. Lenders Make Little Tillman Favors Construct
Progress in Get, Together ing Battle Cruisers To
Movement. I Act Promptly.
TEIIKINS SAYS T. It.
IS ONLY C ANDID ATE I
" ' '
Borah Boomed for .Justice's
(mining Mate to Avert
Third Ticket.
j
. .
Ciiicaoo. June 3.-WIII Col. Roosevelt j
ami ine i-rogressivo party indorse Asso-
elate Justice Charles i:. Hughes?
That Is the question about which the .
ituatlon In regard to tho Republican ,
Presidential nomination Is now turning.
Wg leaders In the Republican party
ACKIinU Il'lll?.,! I fl.,1 1 V th:,t If I, Kn.t.H.n
' ,u""1
eUdont that Justice Hughes would be j
.mcplablc to Col. Roosevelt and the
Progressives he probably will be named.
I .tit If R)"eelt and his followers make
known In advmu'e their determination
not to accept .Mr. Hughes a scramble In
the Republican convention Is predicted
that will filially resolve Itself Into an
other bitter tight between thu ex-Prcsi-k-tit
anil the so-called Old Guard lead
ers of the party.
The situation, therefore, has developed
luiietleally Into one of Halting for the
first detliillii sign from Roosevelt and
the Piogrcsslvcs as to their attitude
tnwanl Hughes. The Republican leail
ers hnxe trleil to get together on some
other candidate, notably Kllhu Root of Hrltlsh crart Hint enabling tne uerman
New York, or Philander C. Knox of ' commander In chief, Vlce-Admlral Hcheer,
l'emislanla. lth a hoi of obtaining'10 dispose his craft In a favorable
Progressive Indorsement, but up to the I manner.
pi .sent all efTotts In this direction have! t was of the highest Importance for
failed and scveroT 'of ""the prominent ' Vlce-Admlral Schcer to know whether or
trailers are acknowledging nrlvatelv that I
till drift SJems to tie Itlevltnhlf tntrrir.l
Hughes.
I
l.lltlr llrntlnn; for T. II.
Col. Roo-cvelf own candl.lacv. mean-,
while, has .mil,. .,n siii,..,,. ... i i, , it ., ... I
Amnt.i. Kl.- ln..t.1ln..u .,
.. . ... ,v,...n ..ii.. ,.i-,..l.)l-
inents inns tur Inillcate that anv effort
to push the Roosevelt boon, through
the ltemit.llea.ti ronventinn tt.in
tne liepiiiiiioau convention Will meet
with hitter opposition from olil time
leaders. Their attitude was described
to-day as being wilting to give the
Colonel everything ho might ask except
the Republican nomination.
While all eyes here are now turned
Inward Roosevelt and the Progressive
amp those In the confidence of the
Colonel Snow that he is as yet abo
I'l'rly uncommitted In regard to the sit
uation, lie. too, Is waiting. He Is not
golnji to say to the Republican leaders
thit he will not support a thin ticket.
Aln, lie Ii not going to give any a-
suianies to the Progressives that he
will Join with them again In an Inde- 1 battle cruisers and two battleship". Re
peudtnt movement. He Is going to wait publican members of the committee In
for the Republican leadens to shape j dlcated they would go as far and even
eeents In the next few days and to re- ' further In restoring the navy to second
miln silent himself, t.'ndcr some clr- place.
ctimstanees. It Is. said, he feels his al- i The battle between the Herman and
b glance might lx to the following that Hrltlsh fleets had the effect of stiffening
he leil four years ago. . nerrentlblv the demands of the prepared-
The ipiestlon was put squarely to
Htorge W. Perkins to-day whether or '
not the Progressives would accent .Ins. '
ttee Hughes and he evaded a direct re- 1
ply. The Interview with Mr. Perkins
clearly 'ndlcated that he was not yet
prepared tn iy that the Progressives
would not take Mr. Hughes.
Ilnusrvrlt Only, Perkins.
"It Ii said thnt you have held con
fi retires with the, Republican leader."
with the Idea of eliminating both Mr.
Jtooievelt and Justice Hughes? Is that
un. .,. i-ithuis was asaeu.
"i nave had a number nf conferences
with Republican leaders here und ex-
peer 10 nave oiners, sam .Mr. Perkins.
The Republicans say, Mr. Perkins.
that 'his i whole matter hangs on the at- paredness therefore will rest on the! tl ue)I t,riiuuimut the night. Since
t li.de of the Progressives toward Ju.iouc conferees. In view of the close W(.a,iler was hazy It is assumed that
the lluahcs. In other words, that the vot0 n the motion to recommit the naval h. ..,,,. nM ot exceed eight miles
.IllStleO WIHllll I.P nfimlil.,,1 ....... .1 l rvna l,nn III."
j ,. , ' " "
Turthcr ndo If they were assured that
'!"" "i" miiei i-riiBressive" would
limorse nun nominate him. We would
in.e in iisk you ine direct ques
tion. Will the Progressives support
Justice Hughes'."'
"We have only one candidate." re.
piled .Mr Perkins, "and he Is Theodore
Itoosevelt, We have ono platform, one
C'oHfln un! oh Seventh Vqq,
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SKVF.N SECTIONS
AS FOLLOWS:
' "get.
i-20
6j
. 12
FIRST
SECOND
THIRD
FOURTH
FIFTH
SIXTH
General New
Sporting. Kenneli
Automobile!
Society, Drama,
iom. Resort
Pictorial Magazine 8
Special Features, Booki,
Queriet, Cheu . . 1 2
Foreign, G ardent,
School.. Poultry, Fi.
nancial, Problemi , 8fu
SEVENTH Rt E.t.te .
Tottl
Rtadtn or nemJialers uho Jo nol if
(fire oil of Art itttlom trill tonftr a
Joter on " Tht Sun" ly notify Ini the Puh
litotion Dtpotimtnl ot omt fy Me pkont
(2200 Bttkmtn) tnJ mittint itctlont
uill i ptlmfily foiuoiJcJ If poiitHt.
PLANS OF NAVY
SHAKEN UP BY
BIG SEA FIGHT
Somite Committeemen for
Increase in Building
Programme.
NEED MOKE AIRCRAFT.
DANIELS DECLARES
Wakhimiton. Jump 3. "The Uerman
battleships, concealed from the enemy '
l'y ,h low n,inmB mM- ,nrfw th,,lri
Preponderating strength Into the North,
Sea cruiser battle before the Ilrltlsh
fleet was able to roach the scene of '
, action, This appear to be the explanu.
I tlon of the Herman naval victory."
I The above statement, made by one of
the ranking officers of the Navy. Depart
1 ment, reflects tho general opinion of
naval experts who have given close at-
tentlon to every scrap of reliable In-
formatlolI ,hal njs comc , concfrnlng
tlie
battle.
The Inability of battle
cruisers to
cope with . battleships, as i
,,0t(., mlt ,,.,,. ,,y Admiral Dewey;!
lr Krcat aHtn.e ttllcn lc r.erm.in
Imvj, toTCCR lkrV,.d frm ttrCraft nnd !
,c ,ivnntagc of getting battleships to .
...
the scene nrst are the lesions which,
onicc ,,eevi. ..hnulrl particularly
n,, ., i. ,.ru,,iniu. .m nn .,
notrd. It Is practically certain now that 1
the building programme In tho present
pending naval bill will be reshars-d as
a result of these lessons.
lrernft nf (irent Aid.
Secretary of the Navy Daivlcls com
mented to day on the great assistance
which Herman aircraft were ablo to
render to the German fleet. Rear Ad
miral Renson, Chief of Operations, said
that the work of the Zeppelins and Her
man aircraft appears to have been most
effcctle In locating the position of the
Hrltlsh craft and enabling the Herman
not the Riitlsh cruiser sipuiiron was
backed by the mnln fleet. The Herman
aircraft were able to supply the valuable
Information that the fleet was not there,
It Is explained. This cnnblcd the Oer-
m:,n .u,,nlri1' ,' "'"' '"I "I?
advantage while relying on his aircraft
to report as soon as the Ilrltlsli- fleet
,ln .,-u. .t,..n..
, , " .. . . . ..
Secretary Daniels said to-day he would
recommend the Inclusion In the naval
bill now pending before the Senate a
provision for additional aircraft and di
rigibles for the American navy
Important changes In the building pro
gramme of thu pending naval bill, based
on the accomplishments of the vnrlous
ii'ivi. nf vpaetn tb.it narttt'lti.'itetl In the
V'.icil. .ultlfi n'.rn t.rtinl leatli' r.al
sured to-day by the Senate Naal Com
mittee, to which the bill was committed
after Its paesage by the House.
Senator Tillman, chairman of the com
mittee, announced after conferring with
the oftlclalH of the Navy Department that
he would favor the authorization of six
ness advocates who wish to have the
navy put bnck In second place as soon
nnsalble. It also drew attention to
ihn nosslbllltv that an entire revision of
the building programme and the ap-
111 OIir.ai.llllB "iii.uii .11 1 ii I -
nate weaxnesscx in nava. material anil
establish a piopcr balance between the
component parts of a fighting fleet In
accordance with the lessons of the North
Sen battle may be necessary.
Nenatr In Snpimrl Plan.
Ti,ere Is llttlo doubt that the Senate
v.-ival Committee will enlarge tne pro
visions of the. House bill. It Ih also
i -,,k,,,u.i.k- eertaln that the Senate will
..,.m,i l.v the committee,
The burden of
. defeating the Senate plans ror naval pie.
mil ycsieiii.. in-1- ,n
. that the House, If the question Is put U.j
to t ogalli, will swing 10 ina laigci-
naval building programme
i 11 m In favor of six battle cruisers
and two dreadnoughts, and we ought to
have dirigibles," said Senator Tillman
,.,i.if. "I have not been led to this
conclusion because of the battle of the
Herman and Hrltlsh Heets. The trouble
' . ... .... i r...n... t.nn . a Vi.ii-a la trm
in tnai 1. 1 iinui ni"i"M
fragmentary to bane any opinion as to
the relative merits of different types of
ship upon II. 1 believe, however, that
we ought to have l.attleshlps."
Senator Uslge, In point of service one
ot tho oldest Republican., on the com
! mlttee. predicted to-day there would he
little opposition on the committee in
I favor of enlarging the bulldltw pro
' gramme, "The question," he said, "will
be up to the House." The Senator said
.the icsponslblllty for rejecting a larger
I pu-jiaredness programme nh.mld he
placed on the House conferees on the
naval bill and that all offers of com
promise should be i ejected.
Representative Htitler. ranking mem
ber of the House Naval Committee, hn
llidlciited that the Republicans will tie,
g'nd to renew Ihe light for battleships If
the question Is put ui to them, The
news of the .,'reat battle came too late to
. have an effect on tho voting yesterday,
l Reprmentatlve Padgett, chairman of the
House committee, taltc" ttie view mat a
bill of 270,OflO,(.nrt is large enough for
I one session of Congress.
The naval bill will not be taken up by
Ihe Senate conmillleo until after the eon
ivenlloiiH. Ry thai lime it Is expected
i that enough detailed Information con
cerning the Nortll Hea light will lie oh
tallied to serve ns the basis for the re
shaping of the building iririimu.e.
I'AIVrt KIKKHORK
fur .Its I'l.urtli.
OIII.RIl KAKI.T.
tt Tark riitc.Afv.
GERMAN LOSSES IN JUTLAND BATTLE GROW;
INCLUDE 2 DREADNOUGHTS, LONDON HEARS;
TEUTONS OPENED ATTACK WITH 100 SHIPS
MET WHOLE BRITISH
FLEET, SAY GERMANS
Horlln Admiralty Lays Stress
on Numerical Superiority
of t lie Enemy.
I ENTIII'SIASM IS OiiOWIXO1
(ierninns Declare Control
Seas by Knirliind Has
Reen Itrnken.
of
P'riat fnblt Ptipxtci to Tur. St
Hrni.iN, via London, June 3. Tin
full (lennan high sens fleet met the
Kreater part of the nindern Hrltlsh navy
In the North Sea battle and, In this tlrst
Brent naval engagement of the present
war, not only secureil results In cum
paratlve losses highly satisfactory to
the Herman nation but at the conclu
sion of the engagement held the Held of
battle.
Thin result was obtained against a
"rl,l'h nl estimated at approximately
,lo"1,,e "" Mrengtli In ships and guns
of """'an Meet engaged.
Vl'1,1. ......... t.rA ,1,.... tl...
""" ""r" ........
'man people believe to-day that llrlt- ,
Ni sea power Is broken and that the
Herman navy has recorded a victory as
brilliant as any found In. the pages of
I. aval history.
The damage suffered by the Oermar
warships which remained afloat has not
yet been made public, but It Is stated
that all the Herman vessels engaged
except those announced In the- Herman
Admiralty statum.'nt ni lost have re
turned to Wllhelmrhavar. safely. A
fuller report regarding damage suffered
by the fleet Is expected soon.
The I'.IIiIiik nlown I'p.
An official statement Issued to-day by
the chief of Ihe Admiralty staff sas:
In order to prevent fabulous reports
It Is again stated that !n'thlvattle off
Skasrerrak on May 31 the Hernia., high
sea force were In battle with the en
tire modern Kngllsh tleet,
To the already published statements
It must be added Hint, according to the
official Hrltlsh report the battle
cruiser Invincible and the armored
cruiser Warrior were also destroyed.
We were obliged to blow up the
small cruiser Hlblng. which on the
night of May 31-Ji'ne 1. owing to a
collision with other Herman war ves
sels, was heavily damaged, and It was
ImiMisslble to take her to port.
The crew was rescued by torpedo
boats, with the exception of the com
mander, two other officers and eigh
teen men. who remained aboard In or
der to blow up the vessel.
According to Dutch reports they
were later brought to Yimilden on a
tug and landed there.
ThlrO-fnnr Capital Ship
The Admiralty announced to. day
at least thirty-four Hrltlsh capital
were engaged In the action and
Hie Hrltlsh torpedo flotilla suffi
heavily.
The Herman losses are sn
, " - fii,.ul, .,,,.1 I
compared to those, of the "rl W '
the empire Is congratu at Ing e flee .
Ninnel'and material stood the test. The.
in tlie ur mam. win . ''V .
Uerman destrojers and torpedo boats
1 showed greater effectiveness than the
, itritluli vessels of these classes. To this
fet In attributed to a considerable
ex-
tent the Herman vicior over
over.
w iieiiiiins. .-.
vi. A.imlri.1 Scheer. who succeeded
Vdintral von Pohl In command of the
Herman high seas Heet. was In personal
command. While waning mr mme emu
.,.( details of the rourse of the battl.
of the battle'
It Is understood here, that the engage.,
. . ..,..... , -.1. ...Un ,,rr tin. 1
111p.11 occurren unnui i." -
Danish const and about 123 miles south
west or i ue ' ' " "
The main battle began abo. 4
In tne ancnioo,, ,.ii -'" -' ' : .
darkness set In, nliout ! o i kick, mail
, ,,,, Ti, nii,. flghtlng was In the
. ',,. ,, ,.t....-nti. ingageineuts. which
or so,
II Itt Vessels l.osl,
Of the lnrger vessels lost by the Hrlt
lsh It Is undeistood that the Queen Mary
and the Indefatigable were sunk In the
main engagement fought In daylight. It
Is not yet known publicly when the su
perdreadnought Warsplte and the other
Hrltlsn vessels were unn
It was announced to-day that the Her -
man battleship rotnmeru. wn.c.i wan
lost, was commanded by dpt. Hoclken,
The Overseas News Agency Issued the
f,.ii,.,..t,,- uiaieincnt to-day regarding
i, enirairnment :
Supplementing me on.ca. repn.i "
.i, admlrnltv It Is slated by a com-
petent authority that in the North Sea
battle the Hermans had In action the
in" ' . . .. ... I'
hlgli sen fleet, witn iiieauiiiiiignis nii.i
older hatlicsnips, imiue nuw.-i ......
light sea forces, including lorpedo hoat
and submarine flotillas. ine Hermans
faced the greater pan m m- ""
Rrlllsh navy. ,,..
"The uerman i-i. i i . in,
were conimannen nj ,....i .
,.ve
These torces nrsi cniereu mm
enmbnt with the enemy's battle cruisers
and light cruisers at about & P. M. the restaurants. In saloons. where
Later the main forces on bolh sides ,.vcr ,,, congregaled lo-nlghl, the loast
took part In llio llglli. miring ine nay n
battli Herman torpedo boats several
times entered Into action succcssmily,
one of them three times, The fight
kept on until 9 o'clock In the evening,
'During tho night both sides made
violent attacks with torpedo boats and
irulsers In which Ihere were further
Hrltlsh losses. The leading (lerman ship
annihilated six modern Hrltlsh do
strovers. "All Herman reports emphasize the
bravery shown by the Rrlllsh during the
light, which lasted almost without Inter
ruption for twelve hours.
"II, M, S, Kraiienlob must be defl-
Qy (invert on Werornf Pngo.
' '" ' '
jjjljjjjjjjl
Copyright International Film Service.
rTlIK Oermun superdreailnoupht Westfalen, re
ported sunk in the North Sen buttle on May
.11. The Westfalen was built in Bremen in 190!) at
a cost of $10,000,000. Her displacement was 18,-
LONDONERS CHEER
NAVAL SURVIVORS
lluudreils of Wounded Men
Arrive l,o,s Said to Kx
eeed 5.000.
I
VKN(!F.AN(.'K
OITCItY FOIl
,.,.,; inhl, l,,.,.ch (nTiil mv i
I.onik,n. June 3. Wounded Mirvlvors ,
of the great naval battle reached here
by the hundreds this morning. Red
Cross ambulances, private automobiles
loaned by their owners and hospital
conveyance" gathered at the station, the
..r .. ........ .1 ... in.,1.
them.
trlct Injun luns were laid upon 'ue
lt. ..... ... ...... .L ..... mlMliilAil hltt '
public not to sneak to the wounded, but
cheer after cheer rolled forth ns Ihe
bandaged sailors walked or were car
ried on stretchers III long lines, lo the
vehlcl.fi which were lo transpjrt them '
to the hospitals or their homes.
No estimate of tne U's ot life on
the Hrltlsh side has lieen given b the
Admiralty, but It Is generally feared
that It will exceed .'i.tmn ollher" and
men, the llrst i.nn-iiltlcial estimate
The wounded who arrived to-day
were mnt nf tnein nol seriously In
jured, Many were burned or scalded,
while olhers had thtlr heads and limbs
bandaged.
A despatch from Portsmouth "avs
that ever since the news of the battle
In the North Sea the dockyard" nnd
VIII nl lie imi'llieil, 11 II licufteu. ilw
,n,.y Iir,n,sl.(1 nol to ,,, ,
' lWnmn ln,HU.r T.
Hague Is on his wav to Ymulden lo do
what he can to care for those of his na
tion, and (lre.it Hritalu Is making ar
rangements through diplomatic channels
to tome to the relief of her men who are
In Holland.
Hre.it Ilrltaln. after a night of gloom,
awoke this morning to tlnd comfort In
the morning newspapers In the news that
while the reports of Hrltlsh losses had
not decreased In any Important partlru-
'ar- ,lu' (lerman losses weie substaii-
u.111,1 Kie.iit-I 111.111 .11 1IISI IM'iitrven
Nothing has hit Kiiglnnd so hard a"
Ihe nniioiiiieeuiFiits of Hrill"h losses
Tlie man In the street wa almost
stuiine.l by the news, mid his s-ir-eom.
lnccm... received a tremendous blow-
The clubs, tin. corridors of the hotels,
the lobbies of theatres, all nubile .dares
1 were crowded with those who il.rued
Intensely but quietly the disaster
Wherever there wn" a tape ma lilti"
them were hundred" about it. K.ich
edition of the newspapers was eager I)
bought up.
A theory which has obtained a large
measure of belief In naval circles I"
that whatever success the Heimims
achieved was due lo the emplovmeut
of the discredited seventeen Inch guns
Tho official' bulletin speaks of the
low visibility of the Herman war ves
sels It Is recalled In this co.i.ieelloii
1 that some vrnrs ngn The Sun published
tt synopsis or tne report or a Turkish
)mVal attache, who contended that the
'Herman hattlesl.ps were more heavily
i nrinnred lha Hie Hi Itlsh because Kiev
I were designed with u lower freeboard.
, This would Mini ten inn stcamitig radius
r ,PM, shins.
Winston Churchill's famous remnik
,lm, wl ,,i.m out like rats
,,," " n .'
fnnn n,,.),. ,ules" has been frequentlv
lecnllcd, However, ine iiuiiK.iig nun
w(, informed Hngllshmeii regarded this
m)mr, when It was made. It Is un -
enlable Hint i niircnin voiced me inn-
I ,ule of the l.uiK or tne people
' JU'lKimc rroni me nemennor or i-""-
, ,mners tne nuge loss win rauy ine people
l0 ,, lor0 intense determination to win
. ,0sent conlllct.
wos! "Tho Queen Mary will be avenged,'
VrVFN CiM SAVICD
!ihbV UtV fill AtM XA UU,
LoNPoS, June .1. Seven survivors of
the Hrltlsh destroyer Shark were landed
al Hull yesterday by a Danish steam
ship, They said Unit they thought no
others of the crow of ninety-two men
were saved
The men, who i.ald the Shark acted
as n decoy boat lo ill aw out the Her
man lleet, were In the water for nearly
seven hours before Ibey were picked up.
One of Ihe men died lifter being landed,
nd two badly wounded hav bean taken
lo a hospital. .
new s,.,per onues nae neen neB,eKe,i ii .dvantiige of the light In so far their northern base. Rear Admiral the ! Hon of the teport that eight Herman ."wing nay. senrehlng f,,r the emmv
rZirT;::"! - ,rUk '",!l"-Mrtw' dying his .lag on the . u,.s,,8 tthloh ll)k , lu, .lU,l"ut they did , re,pp,..,r
thai ! six of the vessels which went down hUBKln the . o.ist ir ..d at tlie same time ( , . ' "r MJl,r,,ct..r, fenl,,,,. thnt
ships ,,e from this port. They wer.. the ,. I were eni.inel'.eil in seek refii"i 111 Dan-' ..Virii . "r "V" "' J""1.
tint "Jueen .Mary, Invincible, Hlack Prince. , ,....., i.,,i i . . , . .. . 1 ""'" n eU w iwiin a i. iv limns
I Fortune. Sparrow-hawk and Ardent. UII-IIHj H...luer.l. ..rllf.v rUH,le(1 ,, .icUim Tjlir ,,, ,), water.s. Acu.tding to thLs report, saying that every t .,v,. tl. M,i-
uirtui .,... , , .. ..., ...... ,.n.t i,. ,,,..l,Arl,i ,,nillhi,n, hhik e.-ltlle untie Inn roiiii f.ir .lit. I..i t !., ..,1 1 tin. Ii.imUIi ,1 lit linrlt leu v.. L'lven tlll l,r I, 1. . , ......
!l II,' lllllisu null i.eriliail siinnis .Mill 1 lien 1,1c u.ih-t,.,,., . ----- - .v - . ...... .tii i;,iij lieeil reillelll'll allll W 1"
reached Holland lifter losing their ship" a iliangc which still further helped the Meet of Ice-Admlial Hearty Still, how- Hermans twenty-four hours-in which to I tea.lv to proceed inxtinilv i.. ....
...1,1 . .... 1... ., 1. 1.. ..., .... .. 1 .1 .p.--.ti. ,-... ii.'..,! .he 1 e..e til., ,l,lu u r In f,-..e ,.f . . ., , , ' ' .... ...i,,, m ...
(1012 tons and her speed 20.5 knots. Her armament
consisted of twelve 11 inch Runs, twelve 5.9 inch
uns and six 18 inch torpedo tubes. She curried a
crew of 9G1 men.
BEATTY ACCEPTED BATTLE
FACING 100 GERMAN SHIPS
Teutons Had Advantage of Position as Great Struggle
Regan First Guns Fired When Fleets Were
Fifteen Miles Apart.
;,..,.!' tl'iuitch to Ti.r StN.
Iisin. June -The Press Asso-
li.itlon's eorrestsindent at IMInburgh
stnds the tlr-t connected storv of the
Nortll S(a Klu aVi,llaulc.
. . ,.,...
ihe coiie-poiident "lOS, "the Hrltlsh bat-
lie cruiser wiinilroi. left Itx base under,
I lommand of Vlce-Admlral Heatty In '
"arch of th.- tit'mf
"At.'iut I P M . when the Hrltlsh
1111(ron ,,i,ouf ion miles off the
wet const of IV;nmar'K. our advanced
guards sighted the enemv, and It soon
was apparent llut lie was out in gie.n
tone, tliere lielng in all anout in" snips.
in lUlllllg at least twenty o,illieiup
anil battle cruisers. In front of them 1
was steaming npldly In a northweterl !
dlr.vlh.ii. .
The fact ha- been emphaslze.l that
condition" vvi re entliely In favor or the
Hermans, wl y this time had doubtless
neconieawarein.il um; a H..II....I .. ...v
Hlitish battle licet w.i" nppoe.l to them,
n.irt fintn tne fact that the H. nuan
w.ie nrabablv three times as strong as
Vice-dmli.tl Realty's squadron, tiny
virilnlliy and ihe Ornish gun lavers i
ui- ill,,. iT.e.itlv handicapped, while ,
with. the western sun behind them the,
lliitlsli ships weie easily picked out on ;
the horizon, whereas the Hermans were
able to conceal their strength, coveted
ns iney weie uj in- .e. ... ............
Niitwlthstandlng all tlne ailvenne
.iindltlons. Vlce-Admlral Realty, true to
the traditions of the Hrltlsh nav.v. never:
hesitated for a moment In throwing!
down the gauntlet to the Herman com
mander In chief.
"It was s.ion made manifest that the
Hermans meant business The small
.raft were soon brushed aside and with
the big gill, ships alHjiit tlftteli mies
apart the llrst exchange of hots tonk
place. Judging b the columns of w .iter
which rose aioiiml the Hrltlsh advanced
vessels there could be no doubt that til"
pick ot the Herman battleships were
hiuilnu bio.iilsldes. and while the famous
new Hindenburg has not been offlclalb
mentioned there Is reaou to believe that
she was heavH engaged.
llenlly nil Ihe I. Ion.
The
Hrltlsh "hips which toul,
th
1 ,ei-iiians, .inn ....'. - 1 - ii a k(, necessarv reii.iii s aim leave 1
brunt of this lighting aie now famous all . title attack by no less than live (lerman 1 wl,n th'' :'nvmn communique, that
our the world. I'list w.i" the I. Ion. battliships or crutseit. She put up a the Warsplte was d.imngrd by ."hell
ihe flagship nf Vlce-Admlral Realty. glorlou light and elthir sunk or seri-itlre. hut escaped torpedoes and re-
whlcli Ihe Hermans allege was sunk In , ouly damaged at least three of her as- turni d to port, and that the Murlbor-
the battle of the Hugger Hank tifteen sallants In addition to some hot light-; lim.,, which was struck bv one tor
inoiilhs ago but whlih gave a ni.igiilll- Hg cicdlt Is due to the Valiant for hav-, , , ,f , . ,r,
eent icoount of Itself In this much . Ing rammed and sunk nn enemv sub- 1 ' 1
gieater battle. Then came the Que. n I
M.... .in. haul,, scarred Tiger, thu1
Princess Royal nnd th" Indefatigable,
Hie last t.imous for the spieiiiim pan
I .a,., i,,,ii In wlnini.' out the Heriimn
i,,(.ie lleet In the battle ore tne mill- ;
l.i th I Island
"P'rom tlfteeen miles the range of battle
i ... ..... ...n.... ...... ,.... t
IM II 111 1 3 Clllie unii n in l.-n iiiih"" mi iii.n .
i )fl ,inil ,y this time a perfect Inferno
ls raging as opposing batlleshlps
. . ..p.i ,i,i.i,siile" upon one another. At
1 ,rht t,e Hrltlsh K.iiiliers were plainly
Superior, i.nd nol long after the battb
,ud H,.llt,.,i ln earn.'
st one of the big
'
, iieriiuin ciulseis was
direct hit and a moment
velopcd ill Haines and sank almost Im
......
mediately afterward.
I'p to this time most of the lighting
had been done by tho Herman battle
clillsers, but vessels of tho enemy's
Kaiser class of battleship Joined ill the
fmy. melr smashing power gave
' ,iPI.nmn ,, -iiu superiority
both lu ships mid In gun power. It
probably will prove when the story or
tlie battle is tuny Known tnai one in
the deadliest enemies of the Hrltlsh bnt
lle ciulseis was the Herman mine Held
Vllnes Hinder i'Iimi.
"The attackers had also to contend
with the danger from submarines and
Zeppelins, but the mine Held prevented
full freedom of action on the part of
the Hrltlsh squadron, which had per
force to light In a narrow area, while
t
the Zeppelins and subma.l.ie-. It ne.n
their base, were able to operate n s:n
a manner as to lie a must inipor'.iM
factor In the battle
"Having succeeded at length ii. draw
ing the whole Herman lleet out of lt
safe quarters, Vlce-Admlral Realty,
greatly outnumbered and running heavy
ilsks. was evidently determined to
hang on grimly In order to detain the
enemy In lull strength. It was a daring
ij.mmvr tn tr.erirrumMs.nccs. for In
gun power the battle crulcr squadron
vva no match for the Hermans, but the
superior gunnery and tactics of the
Hrltlsh lleet enabled them to withstand
the shock of the thunderous battle mar
vellously well. Had the positions been
r,.w.rwi h,uI ur Kr,111(1 M, ,., ,,,. ,,.
Hiseii i,v ,. Herman battle cruiser
"i . i" i,i.iu i me men ,
"f the fleet that th- squadron would I
the highest traditions of the Hrltlsh 1
navy our cruisers hung on to the enemy i
in spite of all disadvantages and loss,,., .
sure in the bop.- that rcenforivinciits j
were on the way. j
.... v. ...... ,e ..n.,e ..ii in.- .
itter the tight had lasted for ,i lni.it a
couple of hour". Then there hove in
sight the Invincible, the Indomitable
ami tne inueinie, nmcn n.id come trom
. .ormatw from the point of view oft
numbers and ni.sitlon. i
"The light by this time was such Hut ;
the Hrltlsh ships were clearly distill-
gulshed, whereas, the Herman lieu, shel.
tered behind Its mine Held and well Into
.-,,.1,,,... un- simie ,11111 nnsi. pro-
vlihd a
very dllllciflt target foi our
gimneis
Nevertheles", the tight proceeded w Itli I
eirlblii Intensity At this stage it was
mainly a battle royal of big guns, ami
the cnlltllct W.I" sttlliendnll" The In
vincible, after lighting with tlie great-, A wireles despatch received from
est gallantry and lining considerable j llerlln till, afternoon Mtid that the Uer
ilamage to the enemy, met hci doom and ' man Admiialty admitted the loss of
sank quickly. Ulr dreidnought Westfalen, an U.600
l-urther and much more formidable l() battleship armed with twelve. 11
v L TdmirT.V,'.. '".e1, nmv,'v'1' n' inch guns. nt!!elal verification of
Ice-Admlr.tl Realty was verv soon ie-,.,, . , . , ..
lieved of anxletv when four battleships 1 mls 1,1,8 lu'''" received from either the
of the grand lleet, the Valiant, R.irhnni, I "rltlsh or the Herman Admiralties.
Malaya and Warsplte, appeared on the! Another leport which obtained cur
horizon. rcney to-ilay was that a new Herman
"With their participation in the tight i Mipeidreadnoiiglit. tho Hindenburg,
the battle took on an entlrelv different ; arme, with 17 Inch guns, hud been
complexion, for ther,. was now- some- u,,i,
ii,i,, ....a, i.,, i ' sunK.
n "n 'Mtinh win. .iii.i ill rueiiKlll
The Warsplte bore the brunt of a ter- i
marine.
"Hventually the Hermans regarded1
dlseictloii as the belter part of valor
',. s..,.h,u ,., mn-ai in meir
, Vases.
fVv'll' ON K LB ING SAVKI).
Onl
due Hrltlsh Nnvnl
Siirvenii
inoi.K Murvltors at Viuiilden
' l
.- ! Viie.'i.i I'.i, litntutli ti tn 'rnr s, v
Till; Haiiuk, via Loudon. June .1- The.
olllcial report of the Naval Dep.iiimeiit I
I Til. "' .r!
i inf.,'. ,-ninir..-,.'ii.- inn- linn l , l
men of the Killing and one Rrlllsh naval
surgeon were brought to Ymulden on
J hnard the Dutch trnwler Rerlha They
were liberated according to the Red
Cioss convention because the Rertha
after rescuing the men was tn no com
munication with any warships,
It has not been decided as yet what
Mops to take In regard to the ship
l wrecked sallois .if the Herman warship
Krnuenloh, who
were landed on the
Hook of Holland,
l iiariiied Brltlali Stenmshlp nnl.,
London, June 3. The unarmed Rrll
lsh steamship Hlmginvc has been sunk,
according to Lloyd's.
The Wmgrnve vvna ot J.01R tons and
was 310 feet lane
Berlin Wireless Message Says Sinking of the
Westfalen Is Admitted by Admiralty
Hindenburg Also Said to
Have Gone Down.
WARSPITE AND MARLBOROUGH
DAMAGED BUT ARE SAFE IN PORT,
British Admiralty Officials Deny That Entire Battle
Fleet Was in Action, Saying Its Appearance on
Scene Forced Germans to Flee to Port.
Sptctal Cablt Dttpalch to Tur. 3i
LONDON, June 3, New light wax shed on tho xre.it Nuitn ft ,i n.iu!
by details received here to-day. These new facts huvo been established:
1. The German dreadnought WestfiUen, according to it wireless message
from Berlin, wan sunk.
2. Tho German cruiser Klbln, the Hcrlin Admiralty admits, was blown
up und Mink.
3. The Urltlsh dreadnought Warsplte, reported by llerlln to have been
sunk, Is safe in port.
Moreover, an unconfirmed report la to the effect that eight Herman wor
ship. were forced to take shelter in Danish wuters and will have to Intern
or come out and face u British cruiser squadron in watch for them.
It Is reported that the Herman dteadnouhl Hindenburg, one nf the
newest class, was sunk.
Thu Admiralty Issued an officio.! statement tn-niaht explicitly denying
the reported loss of the supcrdreudnougl.t Warsplte. Tho statement s..ys.
With reference to the Herman wireless despatch to-day con
taining the report of the speech of the President of the; ReU'listas
announcing the In., a of the battleship Warsplte It Is officially unirmcil
that this Is untrue. Tho ship returned to harbor. The lo-s of the
Alcastcr Is also announced. This is untrue. This vessel nl.-o r
turned to her base.
The names of the three Htltish destroyers hitherto unnamed
making the total of the eight lost, as reported In the cuiiimuniiit
this morning are the Xomnd, the Nestor and the Shark.
.Statements In the same wireless mess.ige that three (h i man
inercliunt vessels had been torpedoed without warning by a Hilti'-li
submarine me without foundation.
oVrnisn l.osa (Iron., '
Although the Admiralty declines to
in.il.e specltlc announcements of the
destruction of Herman ships until defi
nite verification has been obtulued. It
appears froiii. the infot mutton now
available that tin. Herman loss wad
conslderablv higher th-Jn vvi at lir.it
announced.
Kurthermoie. it is p".ulHs)tod that
the main Hrltlsh lleet was not engaged
and defeated, as would appear from
tlie II.,., , ; I ...,e..
that when tho bailie lleet arrived in'i
'"
the Herman Meet retired to 1U base, I
u.avill. ,,, N- tth - ., , u I
K ' ",n , ,d X "rl,11
ever In the control of the Hrltlsh navy.
Un ,le (,r uliui Herman reports 1
.i,..i ... .. ... ,... ......
received to-day announce that the
'
Herman high sea lleet was engaged.
Tl... ..!...! 1... i. ...1.1 .11
'
Danish territorial waters, with tile al
ternative of being Interned, and llrlt- ,
, ' , ' . , ,,, ,
""1
I I hey decide to leave their refuge.
j Announcement was made ut the Ad -
ininiuy loi.ow ing tne siaieiiieiu re-
gaidlng the Warsplte that no further
0tlUi.1l newt would be given out to-
1 night
lili.ill YA eslfitlen Loss,
It was "t.Ued to-day in I'tiiineotlon
Nnvy Anl Crippled.
i Tim Hrltlsh losses In men are a
,imtter of great grief, althougli olllcer
"ay the nav.v has not been crippled.
rmm the Initio cruiser Queen Mar,
:wlth a compliment of about 1,000 otll
i rers ami men, only eight are known to
1 nil e peen snveu. .one are Known lo
have been saved trom either the Inde
fatigable or the armored cruiser Hlack
Prince. The Captain, one Lieutenant
.... ,1 llii-nn ttiaitl t A rdlinl'itv.l til hill' A
, s,,ved from the Invimible. on
l.l"h mr a!S.Z.I Horace "ilonVmVt
1 , , .
his death, Every man on the Defence,
Including Rear Admiral Arbiithnot, Is
repnrteil lost. Altogether the Hrltlsh
losses In otllcers and men are estl
muted at f.,000.
nrltlsh Sen Superiority.
"The outstanding featuro nf the kit
tle." said n high otllclal of the Ad
miralty to the correspondent of The
Hi'N, "was the demonstration of the
ability of a part of the Hritlhh fleet to
meet the entire Herman fleet In Its
own waters and drive It bark Into port.
While our losses were f-evere, the Her
man Iossch were heavier than their
nftltial rommunlqufs state, Against
our three battle cruisers, three cruisers
nnd eight Ueslroyern the Hermans at
llrst admitted the loss of the Pommcra
and now tho loss of the Westfalen.
both dreadnought..
"They admit the los, f m. l,uu;e
cruiser -we say they lost two and
alto four, light-crtlUers. while we be
lieve that ;h.lr admitted lns ,.f s,:.-d-."tr...vcrs
is b,..,,w ,h(. ..,.,, ,,,'.
ber. ,. did Ilol !,. u ,! ,MIU .
ship. The Warsplte. w hie!, tliev el.i.m
VVMS stlllli, )S a fe!y I,, ,,. Ho Is
the .Marlborough, which, .vvnCr was
nit by a torpedo
. . "h ds.
ll ll.r... u,,i .. n
unci au.it,'m,, oil
,hiijiii;ii;i' m, nll, lllil if tile
Millie r.it'n nf .niei,i '. .
. u siirpnin tn spare. Wh i.
" " f 1,1 P'Tsnnnel iu-r,. hcav.v
sti" have .. the men We want,
niei c Is no shortiiue in that ropeci
vv" never expert,.,! to ,rh n,t,
i iii. i ii" nacii witliout Ins. mil ,,. .in,...
' .!,... .....I. ... .. "
.... .ii iMi-n was tne mam icl.ievemcnt.
.i.iniii.ii .ieiu-(i(. wit I Ills I ,,, t ..nils..!
........ ... .. ,'
, ; nmi mi mi rn;.
I nrpeilne I lief feel It e.
, w'' "l as ti.e
" rin ships
. ' esmt 01 gtllilli... Tiupedoes proved
Ineffective save in tile case of the
1 Mterlborutigli, and she succeeded in
1 e,capmg three nrinr tn b,.ltn- hi.
111 tills battle Zeiiiiehns d..l
prove of great value. Only inn. w..s
."(ell, and she vv.is siihjeet, ,j t .,u. a
heavy tiro that she withdrew nml liter
was reported liink.n i two
"As tn tin- cffivtii eness of the sub
marines I cannot sa. a the lull ie.
port I" not In W. ;n..vv th.. we
ramnieii one.
"The battle resolved it.-f ,ntn f cm
phases, the llrst phase when m.i bat
tle i miser,, encounter! d tin- (icrnt.m
buttle cruiser nnd the action entile'.
between them. This act am w as at -lx
miles distant e. The Herman Untie-
snips lay iieinnd a conceal. ng mist.
When Admiral lle.it tj dlscnveieil them
he endeav in ed m entice them inward
England
"The si-avid ph i.- un, the et, case
ment beiwei n mir battle misers and n
part of mil Inttle"hip ih , t imil H, t .
man li.iii'.e.hlp" Tim third .-mil fniuth
phases wile lug'. ' attacks by de
stroyers The leinarknble thing about
thise last phases n Hat the Herman
destroyers railed tn to'i onipll.ih any.
thing, ln r.ict llieie vva not a single
English loss, while t. e Herman lossea
were heavv.
"After tln se, ond phase our main
fleet came up, vvheieupnn the Hetmatis
turned tall ami made for their home
port.
"Admiral Jellirne in a short message
expressed regret that 'misty weather
on May 111 saved the enemy fintn mor
serious losses' Vlce-Admlral Heatiy
In n message deeply deplored the
death of Rear Admiral Hood (whose
wife is un American), who It-it his di
vision Into action with inspiring gal
lantry: Cnpt. Cay of the Invincible
Ciipt, Provvsi. of the Queen Mnrj nnd
Capt. Sovxerbv of the Indefatigable,
former Naval Attache at Washington
I'xplllllis VI entire Report",
"The criticism made of our meagr
reports yrMeiduy created n deprcfslou
which enubled the Hermans lo pro
claim to the neutnil world a gleat
victory. It must be remembered that
Admiral Jelllcne wis obliged to return
400 miles to port, it t which ho nnivid
lale on the morning of June " Wo Is.
nurd what we reieiveil, wind vv.is
lust a brief announcement E.uh .
the morning of .nun
3 we ricclv e I u.
V
II I
