U
'
.
WEATHER FORECAST:
Probably Fair Tonight
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
llteajsttratmt Hme
Sunday Evening
Edition
NUMBER 8021.
WASHINGTON, SUNDAY EVENING, JUNE 4, 1010.
PBICB ONE CENT.
BRITAIN STILL CLAIMS SEA CONTROL;
ENTHUSIASM GROWING IN GERMANY
HUGHES STOCK RISING
AMONG DELEGATES
ON CONVENTION EVE
Experienced Politicians Declare Justice Will
Be Named on Early Ballot If Not Elimi
nated in Some Fashion Roosevelt Re
. ported Second in Race.
BRITISH SEA CHIEF AND LOST ADMIRAL
(From a Start Correspondent.)
CHICAGO, June 4. Hughes stock was on the rise
today among delegates gathering for the Republican con
vention. It has been rising perceptibly for the last twenty
four hours.
Increasing confidence on the part of Hughes leaders
that their candidate will be nominated and energetic efforts
by RooseVelt forces, favorite sons, and part of the Old Guar"
to head off the Justice marked today's situation.
The best judgment of level-headed politicians of long
experience is that unless Hughes in some way is eliminated,
either on his own' motion or by some new maneuver of the
opposition, he is likely to win on an early ballot.
If Hughes should be eliminated, thenjn spite of all the
.efforts 'of thefavorite sons, it is' probable Roosevelt would!
be namedr 'Managers of the favorite sons continue to insist J
that if Hughes is out of it, it will not be Roosevelt but some
man on whom he puts the stamp of his approval.
Arrival of former Congressman Herbert Parsons of
New York, who will be the new national committeeman to
succeed William Barnes, jr., of State Chairman Tanner, of
New York, and other Hughes leaders, has had the effect of
strengthening trie movement for him visibly.
WHITMAN AND FOLLOWERS ARRIVE.
iuuiiuictu mo imiin ooar 01 mo , tors. Tlio hotels this afternoon wer
packed and jammed. Things took on a
real convention aspect. Bull Moose dele
Kates as -well aa Republicans are throng
Ing In. Hy tho time the conventions
open Wednesday. Chicago -will bo
crowded, aa It has never been before
on tho occasion of a Presidential nomi
nation. Signs of rebellion against the leader
ship of George W. Perkins appear In
tho camp of tho Bull Moose. Gov. Hiram
New York deolgatlon, with Uovcrnor
Whitman, reached the scene. The
Hughes leaders from New York de
clared 60 of the 7 votes or that State
would go to tho Justice on the tlrst oal
lot Not only that, but they held out
the Idea that sooner or later all but a
small number of the New York dele
gates would align for Hughes.
It la conceded that Hoot, though he
has many admirers among the dele
gates, stands practically no show of
nomination.
'lhe Hughes movement, until the New
York leaders arrived and took hold, had
been chiefly directed by "rank H.
Hitchcock. Parsons, Tanner, hitman,
and others proved useful rc-onrorce-ments.
Governor Whitman will take a
largo part, if not the chief part, rrom
now on In directing tho Hughes cam
paign. Tho thing not yet clear Is to what
extent dominating llgurcs or tho uid
uuard Hepubllcans are going to swing to
Hughes or to what extent they are go
ing to hold out against him. Vigorous
rumors are In tho air. htfwover, that
they uro likely to tumble over them
selves to go In tho Hughes direction.
It is known that rormer benator
Crane of Massachusetts Is dispose! to
throw his strength and Influence to
Hughes after Weeks had been compli
mented. Benator ttmoot la openly lor
iiughcs.
Sonator Bolea Penrose of Pennayl
vania, who profoBses to control at
least Ilfty-one of the aeventy-six dele
gates from Pennsylvania,. has not yet
decided, at least openly, which way
ha will jump. He does not llko
Hughes, tearing- that If Hughes lu
President he will find tho atmospheru
chill nnd cold when he goes to tho
White House. He would prefer Roose
velt to Hughes, and would prefer a
toactionary of the old guard to elthor
one. Ho will go where tho political
pasture looks groenust for Penrose
and tho members of tho Penrose ma
chine, but ho la not looking for a
loser.
Gets Flood of Protests.
The reports that Penroso was In
clined toward Roosevelt have brought
down on his head a flood of telegrams
of protest from Oorman-Amcrlcans of
t Pennsylvania. They openly thrcnten
'hln political ruin If ho supports Roose
velt. Thcso telegrams have disturbed
htm, but ho hns been quieted In part
by information that a largo share of
them have been prepared In Chicago.
These telegrams are onlv a part of
the accumulating evidence that Oor-mnn-Amerlcan
Influences are at work
trying to swny tho convention both as
to candidate ana platform.
Everybody recognizes that Penrose
Is simply listening and waiting, and
trying to rind out where to go.
nos Is hostile nB ever to Roobc
vclt, but Barnes has been sick with
ptomaine poisoning most of the tlmo
slnco he has boen here. Physical and
political Indisposition prevent Barnes
cutting anywhere near the figure In
thla convention that he did four years
ago. He looks like a broken boss.
Until today there had been compara
tively few delegates on the ground.
Today they began to swarm In, Each
arriving train brought largo numbers
alike of delegates and Interested vlsl-
(Contlnued on Pago Ten.)
ARMIES REST AFTER
FORT BIB BATTLE
Drive West of Meuse Expected
to Be Renewed Following
Failure at Stronghold.
IsiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiBiswwPlcTJMIIiiiiiB iH1111111111111111VV fywv.s
I LHBBX JMiziu. Mat M I II hP ttwvtli? II
I v sW I II it? -,PlM&&&ST'y 3 II
I MfKT '2 I ll - 7BMHgS a II
ILiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiihLbLiW ' "jIsBBBHIBbi u jBHHHHHHHJHBaMMfflHBHHHHHHHHjn
I iLiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHflLmLiiiiiiiBnHSBKI I siiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiflk Liiiiii jJLiiiiiiihLiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiV I
(Ssillllllr SSBBHklttBSBSflE'fl I SBIIIIIr V I
JADMIRAL SIR JOHN JELLICOE.
Is Found,
NORTH SEA STREWN
WITH HUNDREDS OF
BODIES AND DEBRIS
; Every Ship Reaching Danish Ports Reports
Ghastly Reminders of Greatest Naval
Engagement in History Germans De
clare School Holiday to Rejoice.
REAR ADMIRAL HORACE HOOD.
China's Lost Idol
t
Jade Key To Nation's Fate
RETAIL MERCHANTS
TO
N
PARADE
Dr. Sun Yat Sen, Eastern Man
of Destiny, Waits Return of
Talisman.
i READY TO STRIKE DICTATOR
Plan to Organize in Prepared
ness Pageant House Acts
on Holiday Tomorrow.
LONDON, June 4. A lull n the
lighting around Verdun, following the
desperate clashes at Fort Vaux the
last few days, was reported from the
Paris war office today.
Military experts now believe that
the attack of the Germans will Bhlft
back to tho northwestern front. weBt
of tho Meuse, before many hours. It
was here the crown prince delivered
mighty blows last week.
This belief Is based on tho fact that
tho French have held Fort Vaux
against tho desperate thrusts of the
Kaisers forces.
1'ails says the Germans have made
no attempt to press tho advantage
they gained Friday night in this sec
tion, when they stormed and captured
a ditch position north of the fort.
"llio Germans report another auccesaful
raid against tho British front southeast
01 lures. 11 was announced that Wur
temburg regiments stormed and cap
tured tho ridge southeast of Zlllobcko
and English positions lying behind tho
nil . capturing one slightly wounded
Urltlsh gonerul, ono colonel, thirteen
other officers, and 518 men. Tho British
sufferod heavily, Berlin reported. I
General Halg later reported to tho
war office that Canadian troops made an
Impetuous counter-attack recovering
most of the lost ground. Genarals
M.rrer and Wllllnms, of the Third Ca
nadian division, are missing. They aro
believed to have been killed or captured
v.uiimaorame Rcuvuy is Being shown
by the Russian forces along the Aus
trian front.
A determined Infantry offensive on the
Austrian front may bo forecast by tho
renewed activity,
nOMM. Juno 4.-Th Austrlans
drove hard against tho Italian front
In the region of Aslago, In a series of
frultlosa attacks, continuing all day
Friday, General Cadorna reports.
With the participation of thousands of
men. women, and children In tho pre
paredness parade on Flag Day assured,
members of the committee In crnrgo of
arrangements for the pageant today
awaited action of Congress making tho
clay a legal holiday. The House Is ex
pected to agree to tho rcooh'tlon early
tomorrow morning.
The Senate already has voted on the
question. It la up to Majority Leader
Kitchln to present the matter to the
House, so many mpro thousands of
clerks and employes of banks and nther
Institutions may be excused from em
plojment for the day to enter the lino of
march.
One of the principal movements In be
half of the pageant today was the call
ing of a meeting of the proprietors and
managers of nil retail business estab
lishments to discuss plans for the form
ation of a section for the parade.
Thl meeting will be held at the Ra
leigh Hotel on Tuesday evening at 8
o'clock.
It Is the plan to add as many of tho
employes and owners of theso establish
ments us possible to tho line of march
at this meeting.
Women's Section Grows.
Another development of tho dny was tho
announcement of the Department of
the Potomac Woman's Itollef Corps,
Auxiliary to tho Department of the Po
tomac, G. A. R., that It would entor
the pnrode.
In addition, tho Girl Scouts, moro
(Continued on Third Page.)
Stolen Jade Image Traced
Around World and Recovered
by American,
By KENDRICK SCOFIELD.
Somewhere within a thousand
mile radius of Peking, tho gloomy
and the forbidden, is Sun Yat Sen,
man of destiny and first President
of the Chinese Republic.
He is in hiding. About him
swirl the mists and shadows of Ori
ental intrigue. Guards stand at his
elbow, lest some overzealous knife
reap the blood price which is still
upon his head
ride of him. Tens of thousands of
patriots, to make the rank and file
of such an army of revolt, have
been drawn from the rolls of the
Young China Association, and trc
ready at his word to take the field.
RULER'S POWER WANING.
In China's capital, yuan Hhl Kal.
ZAPATA
THREATEN
MEXICAN CAPITAL
Carranza May Have to Recall
Men From North to Defend
Mexico City.
Eli FA HO, 'lex., June i. Ho serious U
tho Zapata army menacing the city
of Mexico that It Is considered posalble
many of the Carranza troops recently
rushed Into northern Mexico may have
to be recalled to tho south to defend
the capital from tho bandits,
Tho menace Is the most serious the
Carranza government has faced since
returning to Mexico City to make
headquarters, according to official ad
vices received by Mexican military of
ficers In tho north, who have been ad
vised to hold themselves and their
commands In readiness to entrain for
the South on short notice.
The disturbing news comes at the mo
mont that Gen. Jacinto Trevlno and
Gen. Gnbrlel Gavlra are distributing
about thirty thousand troops through
out Northern Chlhauhau for co-opora-tlf
n with thp Amprienn fnrpna In rnHIni?
nunareas or tramea ngntingjdown banditry.
ia n.ui- m.,' ! li '" sa'd that the menace of tho
men, Capable Of Officering a great .nDaUsta may have an lmnortant bear-
armv of revolt nr within a dflv's '" on "10 negotiations between the de
Government of tho United States ovor
tho withdrawal of the American troops
irom -Mexico,
In the ovent or necessity for hurrying
some of the Carranza forces back to
Mexico City, instead of insisting on tho
American forces getting out of hla
country. It Is doclared today that Car
ranza may soon thank his stars that
they aro thoro ror tho preservation or
order which ho has not tho men to en
forco. Ucneral Gavlra. following his con-
lntn nremlnr of n Mian rfvnnatv nnri , fcrenco with Uencral l'crshlnir. hna
successor, hv irrar r ir Hun' fnvnr. ' P.1101 himself In personal command of
tn ihn Pro.fa.A.... i. i,.i ui. i..: mo rorrea sent him to co-opcrato with
ditch battle, aided by 'that diplomacy1 fho A"l?rlcnn.? ,n w'Plr"? out banditry
nnd sinister Ilnesse wh ?h hSrnS Tfor j '" J H!SrV, ?iC, "I"6"1' l'eM
him the title of "Tho Chlncso Hlche-1 jFJ?1c5i?,,t!!Bt it? LCXJ?" ",no com:
(Continued on Fourth Pace.) Gcnernl Gavlra hOB accepted,
and
THE TTMES
and
THE CONVENTIONS
The Times' staff of news and political writers are on the ground at Chicago
and will go from there to St. Louis. The Times will cover both conventions with
trained men from its own staff and will repeat Its record on other conventions for
the completeness, promptness, and excluslveness of Its news.
Read The Times for Convention News
Great Britain still controls the sea.
That is the flat statement of the British admiralty after
sifting latest reports of the great naval battle in the North
Sea.
In startling contrast come reports from Berlin of a na
tion gone mad with enthusiasm.
All Germany is celebrating what she claims to be the
end of Brittania's mastery on the seas.
Even the schools have taken up the celebration, and an
official holiday has been declared for the children to pay
tribute to the German grand fleet.
While these conflicting reports of two nations, both
definant, triumphant, come in, there come also thesadder
detalts of a' sea" strewn wItheTdTC?erman and Briton
alike, victims of the most stupendous naval engagement in
history.
Hundreds of horribly mutilated bodies and great quan
tities of wreckage are drifting about in the sea, all steamers
arriving at Danish ports report.
HUNDREDS OF BODIES SEEN.
COPENHAGEN, June 4. Hundreds of bodies, many
of them horribly mutilated by explosions, and great quan
tities of debris are drifting about in the North Sea near the
scene of the battle between the German and British fleet?.
All steamers arriving at Denmark ports report sighting
floating bodies and bits of wreckage.
The steamer Para arrived today, having picked up a
raft aboard which were three German survivors from the
torpedo boat V-48. They had clung to the raft for forty
eight hours and were semi-conscious when rescued.
They reported that ninety-nine of the V-48's crew per
ished and that in all about twenty German torpedo boats
were destroyed.
London Views Battle
As Tactical Victory
LONDON, June 4. Far from regarding the great
North Sea battle as a defeat, England looks upon this great
est naval fight in the world's history as a tactical victory.
For the first time since the war .began the full British
fleet under command of Sir John Jellicoe has been in action.
Before England the entire German high seas squadron fled.
Despite England's heavy losses in ships and men the senti
ment of the country is summoned up in the message of King
George to Admiral Jellicoe, saying:
"I regret that the German fleet was not inclined to face
the encounter they professed to desire."
Sorrow over the loss of two rear admirals and upward
of 5,000 officers and trained seamen is mingled with pride
in the fact that once England's first-line ships swung Into
view the dreadnaughts of the Kaiser turned back.
I No "seventeen-inch guns" of which Germans have
j talked were brought into play and though as many as fifteen
British ships went tb the bottom they were of the lighter
type and were sunk by Germany's super-dreadnaughts,
which failed to account for a single English ship of their own
class,
The admiralty officially deniefl that the dreadnaught
Warspite was sunk, as claimed by the Germans, It was also
denied that the Alcaster was sunk. Both of these ships foiva
returned to port. Against this the admiralty admitted the
sinking of three additional destroyers the Shark, Nomad,
and Nestor,
Reports were also received adding the superdrcad-
