THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAE
26
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, JUNE 4, 1916
26 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 17
FAR F
SEA DEFEAT IS CLAIM OF GREAT BRITAIN
7
ROM
LESS DISPARITY Believe Roosevelt Has 150 Votes Coming On The First Ballot
IN LOSSES THAN
FIHST APPEARED
Conflicting Claims Continue
to Cloud Issue of Great
Naval Battle Fought Off
I inland ('oast on Wednes
day Last
ADMIRAL BEATTY HAD
OFTEN TRIED TO DRA W
GERMAN FLEET OUT
IPencblican A. P. Leased Wire i front, the whole armada steaming rap-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Conflicting claims continue to cloud
the issues of the naval battle fought
of? the Jutland coast on Wednesday
last.
There is no such great disparity in
losses as at first appeared in the
British and German reports, accord
Ins to British admiralty officials who
Claim thM later reports show tYiat two
German battle cruisers went down.
KDINGL'RGH, June 4. According to
the s-ory of the battle received here.
Vice Admiral Sir David Beatty who
commanded the British cruiser squud-
' n.n bad cruised many times in the
'vicinity of the recent nattlefield with- ,
out succeeding in luriug the Germans
lrom their mined waters, but on this
occasion the British seamen had an j
noiling that something important was j
about to happen.
About 4 o'clock Wednesday after-,
noon when the aojiadrun was about 100 ,
Miles west of the Danish coast the
British advance guard sighted the en-.
err.y anil soon it was apparent mat ura
while Ixmdon announces the receipt Germans were coming out
of a wireless dispatch from Berlin force, there being about 100 ships,
carrying an admission from the Ger- The German squadron included at
man adminilty that another German least 20 battleships and battle cruis
'battfesl'ip. in addition to the riVtyi- rs with numerous lighter craft in
mem, was sunk. j '
Berlin has issued no further state
men; regarding the German hisses
which initially were given as one bat
tleship two light cruisers and several
destroyers.
If the revised British reports are
accepted, the losses in ships were ap
proximately as follows:
Three battle cruisers, (Queen Mary.
Indefatigable and lnvim iblel: three
Utnored cruisers, (Defence, Black
Prince and Warrior); about a dozen
destroyers and one submarine.
Geimnn: Two battleships. (West
firten and Fommern); two battle
cruisers (unnamed): four light cruis
ers (Including the Wiesbaden. Ivlbing
and Frauenlob) : six destroyers and a
submarine.
The British admiralty, in addition,
has admitted that the battleship Marl
borough was struck bv a toroeilo. but
declares she was towed safely to port. W l.iriamntary duties after service
It denies the German claim that the i ,vi"' bia regiment a: the front, and
dreadnaught Wurspite was sun!;, al- whose opinions on naval matters are
though conceding that she was dam- j sRerly sought in England. Colone1
aged, by gunfire. 'Churchill gae The Associated Pres
Th Germans are greatly elated at ! the folh wing statement today:
idly in a northwesterly direction. The
conditions were entirely in favor of the
Germans who doubtless soon became
aware that only a fraction of the Brit
ish battle fleet opposed them.
Apart from the fact that the Ger
mans were three times as strong as
Vice Admiral Realty's squadron, they
had the advantage of the light and
adopted their fight tactics of nigging
the coast, at the same tine assuring a
safe retreat j' mosplieric conditions
then took a change which further
helped the Germans. A thin drizzle
reduced the visibility and the British
gunners thus were greatly handicapped
vhiie with the western sun behind
thfcm il:n Rriri;!' ahlnfl MABV werp
in great , , V
p.Ckeil om i u uit ion izuii i nereas ine
Germans were able to conceal their
PREPAREDN
; nirmnrn nn n
P I 9
rnnHULG niLU
ALL IB B
FQQ GERMANS MAKE MORE
t-ww nnA'tnnnn tut t t a ttt
SECTOR NEAR VERDUN
1
SPARKS KILLS THOMPSON
ON GLOBE STREETS
T , . . n GLOBE, June 3. A dispute over j
ill (JniCagO, 130,214 PerSOnS I minim; claims that began several
Al'C in lailC and OCCUDV ' ears a8 between William Sparks,
1 tTT I a P'oneer prospector and former ,
EileVen and One-naif XlOUrS j sergeant of the Arizona rangers, j
PaSSUlg tllC Reviewing ' Frank Thompson, a wealthy I
j 1 mining man, terminated on the
Staild main street of Globe late today j
when Sparks shot and killed
j Thompson. The old prospector j
! was standing on the street when he j
1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 3. The greatest pa
rade ever held in Chicago ended to
night after 136,214 persons, one sixth of
who were women, had filed through
the streets in the preparedness demon
stration. The parade was eleven and! j
a hall hours in passing. More than i I
strength cqveicd as thev were by the 1 one million persons are estimrted to
noticed Thompson approaching.
He drew an automatic revolver and
shot five times. Each bullet was
effective. Sparks surrendered to
the authorities and stated he shot
because Thompson had been
threatening his life.
BRITAIN STILL
SUPREME, SAYS
COL HILL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
LONDON, June 3. Great Britain still
holds undisputed supremacy of the
seas in the judgment of Winston Silen
cer Churchill, recently first lord of
j the admiralty, who now has resumed
(Continued on Page Two)
DENY IRSPITE"
DESTHOVED IT
SERIN FLEET
elated at
tyie outcome of the engagement in
which their main fleet under Ad
miral Schen met the British. Whose
main fleet, they assert, also was en
framed. That the Germans held the
field of the battle is shown, they de
clare, hp the fart that the Germans
picked up sttrvlvom of British
ships that went down.
London officially denies that the
British grand fleet was in the action.
The battle cruiser squadron which is
reported to have rushed between
Germans and their base, seems to
have borne the brunt of the fighting.
Eleven British battleships eventually
went into the battle. It is admitted,
hut of these several are declared to
have been only partly rngaged.
The British losses in officers were
Minutely heavy, the list including
Pea.- Admiral Horace Hood, who went
down with his flagship ti e Invincible;
Cnp'aln Sowreby of the Indefatigable:
Captain Coy of the Invincible nnd
Captain Prowse of the Queen Mary.
The total British losses are estimate'!
at about five thousand.
A British admiralty official made a
statement reviewing the battle in
some details. He declared that the
British went out looking for a fisht
engaged the entire German high se.i
fleet, interrtipteil its plans and drove
it hack to rort. The Germans, he
sold, sprang no surprise. Only one
Zeppelin was seen, and that was driv-
' i have h id an opportunity of exam
ining the reports of the admiralty and
of considering the inlormation in the
possession of the admiralty the fol
lowing fact:; seem to me to be estab
lished: "The naval supremacy of the British
ar- ! fleet in capital ships depends upon su-
petdlwidnaughts aimed with 13 j inch
and IS inch guns and these are suffi
cient by themselves to maintain con
trol of the seas. Of tnese vital units
of .lie lirst rank we have only lost one
the Queen M iry. There appeares to
he no doubt that the Germans have lost
at least one comparable ship. If this
should oe the Lutzow or the Derf
flini'er, that vessel is a heavier loss to
them c el dally end relatively than the
Queen Mary is to us.
"Com Irg to vessels of the second or
der, we have lost the Indefatigable and
the Invincible. These are of an en
tirely different class from the super-
dreadnoi.ghts and, valuable vessels as
i bey are, do not rank as primary units
at the present time. A dreadnought
oattlcship of the Wcstfalen type would
be ,a ioss comparable to either the
Black Frince, Defence and Warrior
belonged to the third order of ships o."
n-
(Continued on Page Three)
n
QUEEN MARY SANK
' IN TWO MINUTES 1
I I
1 LONDON, June 3. The man- !
! nor In which the big British bat-
! tie cruiser Queen Mary came to
! her end is described by an east
I const town correspondent of the
I Weekly Dispatch. The ship, ac-
cording to this correspondent, was
I sfnk by the concentrated gun fire !
t of the German capital ships, cans- I
i irg her magazine to explode with
terrific force. The forward part
1 of the ship was blown nway al- I
1 most tiodilv and she went down '
1 in less than two minutes.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, June 3. An official state
ment issued tonight referring to a
German wireless to the embassy at
Washington today containing the re
port of the speech of the president of
the Reichstag notes that the loss of
the battleship Warspite again is of
ficially affirmed. "This is untrue,"
the statement declares, "that ship hav
ing returned to the harbor."
"The loss of the destro er Alqusler."
the statement continues, "also is an
nounced. That is untrue, that vessel
also having returned to her base.
"The names of three British destroy
ers, not identified, make a total of
eight lost, reported in an official state
ment issued early in the day, are the
Noma, Nestor and Shark.
"Statements in the same German
wireless message as to three German
merchant vessels being torpedoed
without warning by British submarines
are without foundation."
The afternoon newspapers view the
naval engagement in a more favorable
light than some of the morning papers,
probably because the latter were
obliged to form editorial judgment
without the assistance of the second I
British admiralty statement, which
was issued early today.
The Pall Mall Gazette says:
"When the two official announce
ments are put to';. -I her and compared
with the German version there cer
tainly is no ground for depression as
to the actual effects of the engtge
nxnt or its portent for the naval situ
ation at large. Our loss in ships were
greater than the enemy's. The loss
which ny philosophy will assuage is
that of the officers and crews of the
sunken vessels for the vast majority of
w.ts made up largely of military organ - j
! nations which included all brandies j
oi en army ana nary service.
The .parade began at 8 o'clock in the
morning. All day long and far into the
njaht, the marchers, massed from curt)
TVi oarb. roiled like a tide through the
streets. It w;is as if the great sky
scrapers were the banks of a river and
I lie inarching thousands, each with an
American flag the waters moving be
tween them,
du.i'.r General T. II. Barry, com
manding the central department 1". S.
j A. who tat in the reviewing stand, de
I clt'rec ii to be the greatest and most
siiectaclc
AP
Inspiring
he had ever wit
nessed. There were no floats, no com
ic costumes, and little of the holiday
spirit apparent. Patriotic songs were
sung, or hummed or whistled, for few
knew the words. They did better, oc
casionally, with hymns. Many of the
marchers Knew the words of -onward
Christian Soldiers," a hymn which
seemed to strike the parallels as ap
propriate '.( the occasion.
The precision with which the parade
moved was itself said to be a lesson in
preparedness for it was handled by
Captain Raym nd Sheldon of the regu
lar .irm) by a system of telephones.
The demonstra; ion started promptly at
1' a. m. uiMm a salute of 21 guns.
The weather left nothing to be de
sired. A tremendous crowd witnessed
(he spoctacie. They lined the streets
throughout the three and a quarter
miles of the route, and peopled win
dows and balconies whenever available.
ITS
iTILL HARD ON
BANDIT'S TRAIL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
In the land fighting the Germans
have made further progress on the
Verdun front, gaining ground in
the Vaux sector northwest of the
fortress and beating off French
counter attacks. They aiso scored
a success against the Britisn in
Belgium, capturing heights near
Zillebeke south end east of Ypres.
The Austrians claim the gaining
of additional ground against the
Italians in southern Tyrol report
ing the capture of several positions
of strategic importance in the Ar
siero reaion.
I i.
I
ROUS TO LEAS
BUT R00SOELT
TO GAIN EATER
When Favorite Son Ballots
Are Disposed of, Strength
Will Go to Former Presi
dent, Organization Forces
Now ( 'laini
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, June 3 Republican or
ganization leaders admitted tonight
that Charles E. Hughes would get
more votes on the first ballot for the
presidential nomination than any of
his competitors. They estimate his
strength on the initial ballot at be
tween 175 and 225.
The organization forces estimate
The French Statement
PARIS, June 3. The official com
munication issued tonight reads:
"On the right bank of the Meuse,
no infantry action was undertaken
during the course of the day. The i
artillery action continued with great j Roosevelt's first ballot strength at less
violence on the front extending from j than 150 but admit that his vote will
i the Thiaumont farm to Vaux. grow when the favorite son candidate
I "In the fort Vaux region the situa- I begin to drop out of the race,
tion was not modified the enemy made This situation it is said, may lead
no attempt to develop the advantage to a temporary combination between
which he obtained last night. the organization and friends of Roose-
"i in the left bank the bombardment velt to fight Hughes in the early hours
continued against our second line. The j of voting.
day was calm on the rest of the front. What will happen after the first
' The situation from May 28 to June ballot are taken and the favorite son
1 3: The struggle on the front north candidates begin quitting the race,
I of Verdun continued with extreme, nobody seems able to predict at this
violence all week, on the left bank
of the Mesue in a series of uninter
rupted engagements from May 28 to
time. There are outward indications
that the Roosevelt men and the or
ganization republican leaders are pav-
Rppoblican A. P. Leased Wire
L' -N- al- JUe " twenty ,,( ., Hermans nrocressed between I ing the way for possible harmony lat-
Apacbe Indian scouts, reinforced by a j Le Mort Homme and cumieres and er through numerous talks of an in
detachment of the Eleventh cavalry' ' occupied the Gaurette wood and j formal character between representa
are pursuing the fleeing members ofnch imediately west of the wood j ttives of each group. While no defin-
I Thev were not a ile to debouch from 1 lte understanding regarding a urogram
band engaged yesterday cumtas. On the stopes north of Hill i has been reached both sides express
304, we maintained our positions as ! the hope that some kind of an agree
well as on the slopes southwest of j ment may be consummated later.
the Villista
in I-as Varus pass, in th mountains
southwest of Namiquipa according to
reports reaching here tonight. Other
unofficial reports received here from
the American southernmost outpost
indicate that the Carranaz troops in
that vicinity have made no effort to
cooperate with the Americans in run
ninjg down the band.
Two hundred re-mounts for the cav
alry concentration corrals it Colonia
DitMan and Namiquipa were sent
south today as was a large trainload
of food and supplies.
12.000 In Line
SPRINGi-'IELD. Ills.. June 3 Twelve
thousand persons, three thousand of
I w iiom were school children, marthed
in the preparedness parade here today.
Organised labor was not officially rep
vc'sc ntcd.
i
(Continued on Page Two) ' (Continued on Page Two)
TO FRMlflE NEW REPLY TO
THE NOTE FRO! CIRRANZA
In Portland
PORTLAND, ore., June ".It was
estimated that between 25.000 and 30.000
marchers took part in a preparedness
parade here tonight.
In Huoston
Hol STON, Texas. June 3. Nearly
5,000 persons marched in a prepared
ness nrarade here tonhrht. which was
followed by an enthusiastic mass meet
ing ,il v, inch patriotic speeches were
made.
In San Francisco
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, June 3. A
lar.ee part of San Antonio's population
including many women, marched to
night in a preparedness demonstration
Which was headed by the city officials.
The parade was held at night to es
cape the heat of the day.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June 3. President
Wilson probably will take up with
Secretary Lansing, Monday the ques
tion of framing a reply to General
Carranza's new demand that the
American troops be withdrawn from
Mexico.
officials have obtained no indica
tion yet as to the form the (answer
will take further than that it will
not yield to the insistence that Gen
eral Pershing's men retire across the
boundary but they are assembling da-
Germans Claim The Entire
British Fleet Gave Battle
Americans Keep Out
L PASO, June 3. Although condi
tions are more quiet in Mexico than
for some weeks. Washington has not
yet changed its present policy of ad
vising Americans to keep out of the
country as is shown here by an in
cident today.
The managers of the Alvaredo min
ing company and of the Agricola
Power company after a personal in
spection of their properties in '.the
Parral district of. Chihuahua, made a r
tangements for opening up and wired
to their HI Paso offices for the neces
sary American foremen and mechan
ics. A large party was engaged. Rut
it occurred to one of the men to np
peal to Washington for advice. The
advise received today was to keep out
of Mexico for the present.
Following the Scott -t ibregon con
ference, t'onsul Edwards of Juarez ad
vised Americans to stay away frotn
Mexico, add if i in the country, to
come out unless they had particular
business. Consul Edwards then ex
plained that it was not J)aaause condi
tions were alarming but because the
more American subjects in Mexico,
the more danger of complications.
l.e Mort Homme. In the latter region
we captured, in addition, on May 30,
fortified work.
"On the right bank of the Meuse
the enemy after having bombarded on
May 31, our positions between Thia
mont farm and Fort Vaux, attacked
on June 1, and succeeded in gaining
possession to the north of Fort Dau
oiimont of the great part of the Cail
ette wood.
"On the right bank TNXthe . 9Pag
" in June 2, attacks continued be
tween the Vaux yond and the village
of Damloup. having as their principal
objective Fort Vaux. Our artillery in
flicted considerable losses on the ene
my, who stopped along the whole
front, gained a footing in the village
of Damloup.
"On the night of June 2-3, the Ger
mans succeeded in pentrating a ditch
north of Fort Vaux.
The organization leaders are said
to be counting on the assistance of the
Roosevelt delegates to defeat Hughes
and later to have the Hughes men aid
them in preventing Roosevelt from
obtaining the nomination.
In this way they believe they may
succeed in their plan to nominate
either one of the favorite sons or a
dark horse who will be acceptable to
the progressives.
Following is a statement of the
number of votes claimed by the
manages of the different candidates
on the first ballot:
Hughes 282; WTeeks 200; Roosevelt
175; Burton 112; Cummins IM; Fair
banks 83; Root 75; Sherman 05; Knox
56; Brumbaugh 41; Ford 30; La
Folette 26; General Wood 15; Du
pont 14; Borah 3.
There was some talk today of a
plan to adopt the party platform be-
"Two French divisions brought to fore nominating the candidate for
the Verdun region have been identified ; president but this suggestion brought
one on Le Mort Homme and the other
in the region of Dauoumont."
The Belgian communication:
"The day was calm."
The British Statement
LONDON, June 3. The British of-
a vigorous protest from the friends
of Hughes, who professed to see in
the move a scheme to injure the
chances of their candidates.
One of the developments that
aroused interest during the day was a
suggestion made by Alexander I'.
fil ial statement issued at midnight j Moore of Pennsylvania, who is a dele-
reads:
"Fighting
continued unceasingly
gate and an ardent Roosevelt sup
a very severe nature i porter. Mr. Moore said he thought
southeast of it would be a fine thing if Boies
Ypres between Hooge and the Ypres- Penrose of Pennsylvania would be
Mer.in railway. Following up Ojeir induced "to support Colonel Roosevelt
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN, (Via London.) June 3.--A
secondary official statement issued
'cruiser Warrior were also destroyed.
"We were obliged to blow up the
small cruller Kbling, which on the
night of May 21. June 1. owing to a
today by the chief of the admiralty I collision with other German war ves-
staff says:
"In order to prevent fabulous re
ports it is again stated that In the
liuttle off Skagerak on May 31 the
ta en all of the points raised in the
Mexican note.
Seretary Baker conferred with the
president today on the Mexican ques
tion but the particular aspects dis
cussed were not disclosed. It is known
that the results of the local conference
yet between Generals Pershing and
Qavira were not mentioned.
While details of the Pershing-Ga-
viru conference have not been made
public it is known that no suggestion
for an agreement as to local troop
dispositions was made, the conversa
tion eon; for the most part in
statements Ty the Mexican field com
mander of What steps he was taking
to round up the bandits. The real
purpose of the meeting, it was under
stood was to prove against the danger
of ilashe;! between American and
Mexican troops operating in the sairje
general territory.
Secretary Haker described the meet
ing as friendly and tending to show
the desire of the Carranza commander
to earn- out its campaign against the
bandits, in a cooperative spirit with
the Americans.
The gunboat Marietta was ordered
from Vert) Cruz to Tampiso Unlay to
In Memphis
MEMPHIS, Tenn., June 3. Confed
erate veterans and members of the
initial advantage obtained yesterday for the presidential nomination and
evening in penetrating our forward then have the Roosevelt element
line in this neighborhood the Germans throw its strength to the Pennsyl
ptished their attack during the night , vania man for the chairmanship of
and succeeded in pushing through our the republican national commitee. It
(Continued on Page Two) (Continued on Page Three)
sels, was heavily damaged, and it
was impossible to take her to port.
The crew was rescued by torpedo relieve the anxiety of the Americans
I boats with the exception of the com- , in the oil regions who continue to
German high sea forces were in battle j mander, two other officers and 18 ctau'dalp of the hostility of (leneral
with the entire marine Knglish fleet, men who remained aboard in order Naff.'ireta the Carranza district com-
"To the already published statement ' to blow up the vessel.
It must be added that, according to j ' o ording to Dutch reports they were
the official Pritish report the battle I later brought to Ymuidcn on a tug
cruiser Invincible and the armored and landed there.
mander. Many of the Americans are
desirous of leaving, it is said, and
efforts to bring them out by rail may
be made.
(Continued on Tage Two)
Nine Bodies
Are Recovered
From Wreckage
Republican A. Leased Wire
WATKRLOO. Iowa. June 3. Rescue
work at the Packard wreck has re
sulted in the finding of nine bodies,
eight of which have been identified.
Four are known to be missing.
The unidentified body was that of
a woman, age about 50, five feet
tall, brown hair, turning grey, wore
an opal and , diamond ring, right
thumb crippled, having been" broken
and improperly set.
The known missing are:
Mrs. Frances Ohristianson, Wesley,
Iowa.
Harry Farrell, Louisville, Ky.
- Pearl Robinson 14, Sterling. 111.
Mrs. Williams, address unknown.
Many injured persons are being giv
en treatment in local hospitals, three
of whom are believed to be fatally in
jured. These are Mrs. E. N. Thoen,
of Kcnsett. Iowa, S. L. Case, Henry
Unsen of Minot, M. D.
Enriouez to Ruturn
CHIHUAHUA, Mexico, June 3.
Governor Enriquez of Chihuahua is
exnected here tomorrow from Mexico
'C0Y, where he has been op official
business. During his absence Colonel
Francisco Trevino, state treasurer and
Brother of General Jacinto T'evino
has acted as governor, following the
Mexican law which makes the tr?as
urer second in rank to the governor.
Governor Enriquez will again assume
the executiv? chair on his return.
General I.uis Herrera reports from
P in al that he has taken sffecitJ pains
to safeguard American property in
COLORADO ROOSEVELT CLUB
TO WORK FOR NOMINATION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
'work for the nomination of Colonel
(Continued from Page Two)
Louisiana Contest Gives
Committee Nut To Crack
the republican national convention are
involved, failed today.
This contest has given the national
committee more concern than any
other. In the three days of hearing of
contests, the national committee has
disposed of thirty-four delegate con
tests in seven states, leaving twenty
eight contests yet to be settled.
The contests heard and determined
were from the following states:
Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, Mis-
CH1CAGO, June 3. Word was -re-1 Roosevelt by the republican conven
ed ved at headquarters of the pro- jtion.
gressive national convention today The delegation will be Frank C.
that members of the recently organiz- Goudy, president of the club, J. C.
led Colorado-Roosevelt republican club Burger,- D. A. Lewis, C. MacA Wilcox,
J are coming to Chicago Monday to .W. W. Borth, Whitney Newton S. D.
Nicholson, and Allison Stocker.
Among the visitors 'at the headquar
ters today was Dr. Francis Shine of
Pisbee. Ariz., a great grandson of
Thomas Jefferson, who is now sup
porting Roosevelt.
Announcement was made tonight
that John W. McGrath, private secre
tary for Colonel Roosevelt, they won hi
open another republican Roosevelt
headquarters in Chicago tomorrow.
"I am going to open headquarters
tomorrow for Colonel Roosevelt where
I intend to meet and talk to dele
gates to the republican national con
vention," said Mr. McGrath.
Roosevelt already has republican
headquarters here in charge of George
Von L. Meyer.
Colonel Roosevelt at his home in
Oyster Bay is keeping in close touch
with developments in Chicago by long
distance telephone. His aides in Chi
cago make reports to him several
times a day, it is said.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire isouri, Oklahoma, South Carolina and
CHICAGO, June 3. Efforts to bring Texas,
about a settlement of the Louisiana In addition to the contests heard and
contests in which twelve delegates to disposed of the committee has heard
the evidence and arguments in the
Louisiana contests covering four dele
gates at large and eight congressional
district delegates.
The contests yet to he heard are:
District of Columbia, two delegates
at large.
Florida, one district delegate.
Georgia, one district delegate.
Texas, eight delegates at large and
three district delegates.
Virginia, one district delegate.
