What is Best for Maui
is Best for the News
If you wish Prosperity
Advertise in the News
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., FRIDAY. APRIL 7, 1916.
NUMBER 7
College On Wrong
Tack Thinks Smith
Former Professor Tells Where He
Stands On Agricultural Education
Demand Is For Sugar Training
Editor Maui News:
Pear Sir My attitude in regard to
agricultural instruction at tho College
of Hawaii is that the chief aim should
ho to satisfy tho demands of tho young
men who are coming to it for instruc
tion and training. The question is not
whether you and I believe in diversi
fication, or do not believe in it, or
whether we have attempted, each in
our small way, to advance this cause.
Neither is it a question of the ability
of this or that industry to stand alone.
The young men who are growing to
manhood's estate in this community
are asking for the kind of an educa
tion that will fit, them to take up the
burden where their fathers lay it
down. This is their land, and the to
morrow that is coming is their day,
not ours. They have the right, to de
mand the best preparation the state
can give them, to fit them to assume
the duties of life, and meet conditions
as they find them, not as they might
be if all planters were small farmers.
There are many men who cannot
afford to send their sons to mainland
universities to get a college training.
The College of Hawaii should provide
the very best course of instruction to
place its graduates on a level with
graduates from the older institutions.
As far as training in agriculture is
concerned the students are asking for
the agriculture that is going to help
them grow cane. All the men who
have come to the institution thus far
are looking forward to employment
in existing industries.
If horticulture was the leading in
dustry of Hawaii I would say make
horticulture the base for teaching the
science of production, because the
boys who are growing up in the coun
try would naturally expect to become
fruit farmers. However sugar cane
production is the principle business of
the people of this Territory.
I would teach cane growing in the
public schools in cane districts; the
every day science of coffee, cattle,
pineapples, rice and general farming
in districts where one crop, or one
industry is dominant. That is the
present day trend in the slates where
agriculture is the principle business
of the people. Every effort is being
put forth to fit the hoys and girls to
enter the community life of the land
they call home. A nationwide move
ment is afoot to educate farm boys
for better farming, and the states
where tho most rapid strides are mak
ing are doing just this. The "farm
boys" here in Hawaii are mostly
"plantation boys", I think you will
have to admit, and most of them are
planning to be planters, engineers,
chemists, entomologists, or to engage
in the transportation, manufacture, or
the sale of the products of the land.
Some of them will undoubtedly strike
out for themselves, blazing new trails,
and some will succeed where their
predecessors failed.
The creation of new industries is al
most invariably the result of individu
al achievement. I do not call to mind
any American industry that has origi
nated from governmental effort, ex
cept the whole people were behind it,
boosting it. The beet sugar industry
of the Middle West is perhaps the
closest example, but that had pioneers
apart from the department of agricul
ture from Washington. Here in Ha
waii the present attitude towards div
ersified industries can best be de
scribed as "tolerant".
My individual point of view is that
propaganda is out of place in an edu
calional program. Perhaps ten years
hence you will agree with me. If
students were coming to the college
asking for instruction in dairying I
would say by all means make that a
major course. What the boys are in
terested in is cane, and Ihey are avid
for knowledge wherever it has a bear
ing on any phase of the business of
sugar production. In my opinion this
trend will grow rather than diminish
as the institution develops. The sug
ar industry is big and powerful, as
you say, but that advantage will not
continue unless tho state does what is
right for the young men who are go
ing on with it, after this gem ration
has been shelved.
J A RED G. SMITH
Honolulu, April 3, 191G.
National Guard Is
Now Storm Center
Famous Whitener Report Controversy
Growing In Intensity Is Basis Of
Political Attack On Pinkham
(Special to MAUI NEWS)
HONOLULU, April 4. The controv
ersy over the Whitener report is grow
ing hotter daily. How it will end is
hard to predict, but Governor Pinkham
is putting up a hard fight to clear him
self of the onus of having endorsed
the report, which charges that under
the previous administration the na
tional guard was rotten with politics.
The situation, in brief, is as follows:
Lieutenant Whitener, U. S. A., and
former inspector of the national guard,
in his official report to the war de
partment, mad certain charges
agains the handling of the local mili
tia, Cob J. W. Jones, the former
adjutant-general. He virtually alleg
ed that the guard had been a political
machine, and was filled with ineffi
ciency, and he was not very copli
mentary in his references to Hawaii
an officers then in the guard. The re
port was supposed confidential, but it
s printed, with the Governor's
sanction, and distributed in Washing
ton in order to promote the plan of
having General Sam Johnsons's job as
nead of the national guard, made a
federal one appointment and tav
from federal sources.
Col. Jones and other former memb
ers of the guard have been making
a lot of noise about the report, and
lately Delegate Kuhio has taken the
matter up on the grounds that the
hitener report was unjust to the Ha
waiian members of the guard. The
Delegate first asked Governor Pink
ham if he agreed with the sentiments
expressed in the report, to which the
governor replied with a denial that
he knew the nature of these state
ments. Col. Jones then secured from
George R. Clark, former secretary to
the governor, an affidavit to effect that
he had transcribed on typewriter the
cport for Lieutenant .Whitener, at
Governor Pinkham's request, and that
the Governor knew the nature of the
report, and had had a copy of same.
Last Saturday Governor Pinkham
gave out a stenographic report of his
interview with Clark on this matter,
in which the latter rather weakened
his affidavit, by admitting that the
Governor might not have known the
contents of the report, or that it was
to be printed.
At the present time Kuhio, Jones,
and others are filling the Honolulu
papers with letters, evidently intend
ed to shoulder the blame of the public
ation of the report at least, on Gov
ernor Pinkham. It all looks like ex
cellent political ammunition, in which
Cupid will be strenghtened as a de
fender of the Hawaiians, and the ad
mnistration weakened by showing it
to have been a party to a plan to side
track the Hawaiians in the national
guard. Just how the guard itself,
serving as the shuttle-cock, will come
out is a question.
Salvation Army Leader
Making Farewell Visit
Col. Blanche B. Cox, head of the
Salvation Army in the Islands, who is
making her last official visit to Maui,
preached to an overflowing house at
Lahaina, last Sunday night. The
services were held in the Hale Aloha.
Col. Cox, is accompanied on her trip
by her daughter Cadet Ruth Cox, who
sang during the services. A number
of Wailuku and Lahaina officers also
had a part in the meeting.
The meeting was also the occasion
of the initial appearancepin public of
the new Lahaina band under the lead
ership of Lowell Kupau. The musi
cians worked valiantly and their ef
fort were duly appreciated.
Later during the week Col. Cox and
party rode by horseback around West
Maui. She will speak at the following
places during the next few days Wai
luku, Salvation Army Citadel, tomor
row (Saturday) evening; Taia Union
Church, 11 Sunday morning; Wailuku
Union Church, ?:30 o'clock Sunday
evening.
As chief divisional commander of
the Hawaiian Islands, Col. Cox is mak
ing a general tour of inspection, and
as she is to be transferred, this will
be her farewell visit. Her successor
is unknown at present.
NEW MARKET FOR LAHAINA
W. L. Decoto, proprietor of the
Plantation Market, is planning to erect
a new concrete market building on the
site of the present market. The new
structure will be of most modern typ
with latest sanitary appliances, and
will probabyl cost about $20,000 It
will have room for 8 fish stalls besides
the meat market proper.
Olinda Reservoir
May Be Advertised
Plans Ready For Tenders New Kui
aha Road Work Started Further
Extension Surveyed
J. C. Foss, J., who was the lowest
bidder for the construction of the road
extension and a bridge across East Ku
iaha gulch, in the homestead district,
was formally awarded the contract on
Tuesday, and has already begun work.
The cost of the right of way across
the land of L. E Sauers, which has
been a stumbling block for some time,
was assumed by the Haiku Fruit and
Packing Company.
The loan fund commission has also
taken steps to carry this same road
still further eastward, and Engineer
Batch has been engaged during the
past few days in making the neces
sary surveys. Tho new extension is
designed to shorten the present road,
and to give outlet to several home
steaders whose lots are practically in
accessable. The road will also prob
ably become in time a part of the main
belt road
Loan Fund Meeting Today
At the meeting of the loan fund
commissioners being held today,
noon, it is possible that tenders for
this new extension will be called for.
It is also expected that tenders for
the construction of the relocated Olin
da reservoir will also be advertised
for, following today's meeting. The
plans are now completed, and so far
as is known there are no further hit
ches to delay this much delayed pro
ject.
Divorces Wanted By
Mismated Couples
One Case To Be Carried To Supreme
Court Plaintiff Loses In Suit To
Quiet Title
In the circuit court yesterday morn
ing, in the case of t.ie Kahulul Rail
road Company vs. E. B, Blanchard,
with J. H. Fisher, auditor of the ter
ritory as garnishee, judgment was
granted by default to the plaintiff tor
$760.70 with interest and costs.
In the case of W A. Clark vs. Joe
Sylva, an action to quiet title, Judge
Edings sustained the demurrer of the
defendant, on the ground that the
court Is not empowered to set aside
the sale of the property made by the
sheriff. An exception was noted.
Pia Cockett was allowed by the
court a bill for $40 for services as
receiver of the property involved In
the suit of Yip Lan vs. Kiyamoto et al.
Three suits for divorce were in
stituted during the week. Mrs. Mary
Wessler seeks divorce from her hus
band Bernard L Wessler on grounds
of non-support. On similar represent
ation Mrs. Mary Marks wishes to be
seperated from Joe Marks. Akaniao
Apikai likewise would like a divorce
from his wife, Maka Apikai, on
grounds of desertion and infidelity.
In the case of Manuel F. Costa vs.
Mary Pineiro Costa, in which a do-
vorce was granted recently, the libe
lee has appealed the case to the sup
reme court
An appeal is also to be made in the
case of L. Weinzheimer vs. D. H.
Kahaulelio, ejectment.
McCandless Coming
To Help His Faction
L. L. McCandless, J. H. Wilson, and
M. C. Pecheco are expected to arrive
on Maul tomorrow morning. A wire
less to this effect has been received
by Morris Keohokale. The leaders
of tho Pauaht street wing of the de
mocratic party expect to make a
number of addresses before Monday
night in the interests of Keohokale
for delegate to the democratic na
tional convention, in St. Louis, and
Eugene Murphy, as alternate.
The ''Pinkham wing" of the party,
represented by Dr, Raymond as candi
date for delegate, and lien Lyons as
alternate, is also busy, and will prob
ably do some stumping next week.
The party election will be held on Sa
turday evenining, April 13, and pro
mises to be a warm contest here on
Maui.
A. M. BROWN OPERATED
UPON FOR APPENDICITIS
A. M. Brown, city attorney of Ho
nolulu, who arrived on Maui on Wed
nesday of last week to visit his ranch
in Makawao, was taken suddenly ill
the day following, and was operated
upon at the Paia Hospital for ap
pendicitis. He is reported to be re
covering rapidly. His wife is with
him.
Pineapple Growers
Want New Schedule
Plan Stale That Would Re Fair To
Grower And Packer Suggestion
Doing Considered By Companies
L
Haw.
direr
ing
Man1
meet
mil it
that
bo t:
1". Arnold, superintendent of the
.iian Pineapple Company, and a
of the Haiku Fruit and Pack
inpany, arrived unexpectedly on
tliis morning, and is holding a
ng with the homesteaders' com-
this afternoon. I is possible
ome definite understanding will
i.'ed at before lie leaves.
C:. fully worked out schedule? were
presi nted by a committee of the Haiku
Far, is' Association, to a represent a
tive ''eting of that body, at the Ku
iaha sehoolliouso, last Saturday eve
ning, which it is believed may form
fit luisis of a more equitable arrange
men between tho pineappla growers
of the homesteads and the cannors,
thai: has heretofore existed. The great
amount of work performed by '.he
eomniitoe was thoroughly approved,
and negotations will be continued
lool.l.ig to a satisfactory consumma
tion, f possible.
The report made by the committee
that H. A, Baldwin had expressed his
beli- f in the fairness of the plan prop
osed by the homesteaders, and had
promised to use his influence in hav
ing it adopted by the Maui riueapple
Company, was received with satisfac
tion. It was reported that James D.
Dole, president of the Haiku Fruit &
Packing Company, had been unwilling
to pass judgment on the proposition
prior to his return from the coast, for
which he sailed this week. His comp
any, however indicated that it would
be willing to do better for the home
steaders than it has been able to do
in the past.
Would Share Profits Or Losses
The plan which the homesteaders
propose, and which has been very
carefully worked out, is intended to
base the price paid for fruit upon the
price received by the canner for the
finished product, and is so graduated
that the grower will not furnish fruit
at a loss unless at the same time the
packer is also losing proportionately.
This has not been the case in the past,
" Li re growers wero lowing, and the
canneries were still making profits.
It was evident at the meeting that
most of the homesteaders will again
begin planting, who have declined to
do so under present conditions.
Members Named For
County Fair Committee
It is probable that within another
week the Maui County Fair executive
committee will be able to effect an or
ganization and get down to business.
Secretary Case, of the chamber of
commerce has during the week receiv
ed the following named members, ap
pointed by as many different organiza
tions: F. G. Krauss, Hawaii Experi
ment Station; Dr. J. C. Fitzgerald,
Board of Agriculture and Forestry;
Angus Mcl'hee, Maui Racing Associa
tion; James Lindsay, Haiku Farmers'
Association; E. C. Moore, Extension
Division of Federal Experiment Sta
tion. A communication was also received
from tho Hawaiian Sugar Planters'
Association, advising that at a meet
ing of the trustees of that body, it
had been decided to leave the matter
of a representative up io the members
of the association, residing here on
Maui. It is probable that Chairman
Wadsworth, of the Fair Committee
will call a meeting at an date, at
which time he will fill the vacancies
on the commit too of IS, by appoint
ment, and the committee will then
organize for business.
Sister Bonaventura
To Be Remembered
When the mails leave Maui for Ho
nolulu tonight, they will doubtless
carry numbers of messages of affec
tionate congratulation to a woman
whose sweetness of character has left
an indelible mark on the pages of this
Islands history. That woman is Sis
ter Bonaventura, aud the occasion for
the little demonstration is her golden
anniversary the completion of fifty
yeais as a member of her order
which occurs on next Sunday.
Sister Bonaventura came to tho Is
lands and to Maui some z years ago,
and opened what Is now the Malulani
Hospital, in Wailuku. She was in
charge of that institution until some
five or six years imo when she was
transferred to the Kapiulani Children
Hone, in Honolulu. Dining her it si
dei.ee in Maui she einb aied herself to
hundreds of prisons through her
swiftness of di.-po.-itiiiii and nevep
failing kindness. Ib r leaving Maui
was in the nature of a calamity, but
her friends have not and will never
fortet her.
IS GERMANY READY
TO NEGOTIATE PEACE?
Chancellor von Dethmann-Hollweg Makes Notable
Address-Struggle About Verdun Still Undecid
ed Villa Still Eludes American Troops
BERLIN, April 7 War policies of Teutons arc outlined in
Reichstag. Chancellor tells imperial parliament of aims ami hopes of
kaiser as result of big conflict. Kncmics would win by starving Ger
man people, he said. Elaborated report of famous address shows, that
both Belgium and Poland are decreed to come under Teutonic control.
BERLIN, April 6 Baron von Bethmann-Uollweg. German
premier tells Reichstag that guarantee must be given for Belgium.
That country not to be allowed to become a military and economic
fortification of Anglo-French against the fatherland.
Teuton drive in the Riga zone is reported by Petrograd. German
artillery opens way for infantry through break in Russian line, and
troops of Kaiser arc driven back in fighting. Yon Hindenburg loses
to legions of Russia.
French claim success in Ycrduti. zone and elsewhere, but Berlin
contradicts these representations, in
BERLIX, April 5 Xo aggression against the United States, Ca
nada, or any South American country is contemplated by Germany
now or in the future. This declaration is a part of a notable speech by
the German chancellor.Dr. von B.ethmantrllollweg in the Reichstag
todaj't The chancellor protested to the Reichstag to the report that
Germany now or at any time contemplates aggressive action against
America, Brazil or any other American country. He indicates that
Germany will resist to the last man against destruction of military
power. Places responsibility for further slaughter on Allies.
HONOLULU, April 7 Judge Stuart sprinkles pepper at Rotary
Club lunchon. Raps Governor, scores Sam Johnson, and makes fun
of Forbes and Kuhio. Hawaii militia head answers Stuart in kind.
Says Stuart is not mentally equal to men carrying rifles in the guard.
Concrete road exiert wanted. Supervisor Larson thinks city
should ask Washington to send such a man here.
Mainland jurist may come here to try Ex-Clerk Foster Davis,
who was let out of clerkship in federal court. Judge Clemons dis
qualifies himself to try case. Many attorneys line up for defendant.
Aeroplane fleet to be organized by national fund. Military craft
will be built and men trained to use them efficiently. Congress is dis
playing1 great lack of interest. Ever)' flying machine in Mexico is
worth one thousand American soldiers.
HONOLULU, April 7 Mrs. Charlotte Howell figures in an at
tempt to suicide. Ambulance makes wild night dash and saves woman.
Emergency vehicle loses door in smash. Driver avoids crash with an
army auto in sensational race with death.
LAREDO, April 7 Mexican bandits killed passengers ruthlessly.
More that 50 persons slaughtered in train hold-up.
LONDON, April 7 Earl of Derby quits as head of aerial service.
Says all his time is taken recruiting men for English army.
TOKIO, April 7 Naturalization case of Hawaii sets Tokio talk
ing. Papers and people much interested.
BERLIN, April 6 German chancellor lays down conditions of
peace. Must be a new Belgium aud Poland, is his declaration. Is
cotident starvation plan of Allies has failed to crush Germany. Em
phatic in assertion that Teuton cause i not based on wish for addi
tional territory. Americans need not be anxious.
PARIS, April 6 Submarine w.-.-: goes on. Allies sink one diver.
It is announced that French and British warships destroyed a German
submarine and captured the crew, the location not being given.
Neutral and belligerent vessels alike are victims of German campaign.
Verdun front scene of bloody fighting. French have captured
a large part of the square of woods north of Avacourt which has
been the focus of much activity. They won their victory after an all
night struggle. East of the Meuse the Germans were repulsed. Ger
mans secured a footing in the village of Harcourt. French hold the
village under fire, due to their position.
BERLIN, AprilG Germans storm Harcourt and capture prison
ers. WASHINGTON, April 6 Hundred million dollars for defense
bill now reported. House military affairs committee recommends bill
today. It includes provisions for mounting Id-inch guns to guard
New York, Boston, San Francisco, and other places.
SEATTLE, April 6 Brute murdered aged women in their
Seattle home. Mrs.Croinne Wheeler, aged 7o and her sister Mrs. Kate
Swift, aged 53 were the victims. They were robbed of $2000 which
they had hidden in the house.
BUCHAREST, Roumania, April 6 Roftmania fears that Bulgar
ia will spring surprise.
AMOY, China, April ( Swatow has fallen to revolutionists.
TOKIO, April 6 -The owners of the wrecked steamer Chiyo
Maru, near Hongkong, have decided to try to salve vessel by blowing
up with guncotton the rock on which she is stranded.
LONDON, April 7 Fight under ground ends when Teutons
flee. Palis reports victory in we'.'l battle in subterranean galleries,
driven by Germans against the French line.
Crown prince succeeds in drive upon Harcourt. Captures long
battled for village, but loses ground at Avacourt. Desperate fighting
for salient at St. Eloi is still on.
WASHINGTON, April 7 Government ships supplies to Mexi
can concerns. State department receives fresh reports that Felix Diaz
is gathering strength. Carranza troops again corner Yilla. Rumored
that Pershing expedition will be withdrawn, is denied by Secretary
Lansing.
NEW" YORK, April 7 Relative of Leland Stanford sues for in
heritance. Claims mother and lawyer connived to rob him.
LONDON, April 7 Zeppelin reported sunk after attack. Believ
ed to have been struck by aero shells.
BERLIN, April 7 Economy enhanced by German government.
Clock set ahead, and meat is further curtailed.
SAN FRANCISCO, April 7 Widow of Capt. Greene gets his
estate collating of $10,000 and stocks and bonds.
WASHINGTON, April 6 Funton wants recruits quick. He
made request today.
(Continued
favor of kaiser.
on Fage Five.)
