'4'
x-aancrru .4
CARMEN STRNIE
WHEN LOCK-UT
KITS UNION MEN
Washingon-Virginia Em
playes Quit-Strike on Old
Daminion Line Today.
PORTY ARE DISCHARGED
Action by Officials Spurs the
Union to Order Imme
diate Walk-out.
SCWEDULE IS MAINTAINED
Ceneral Superinted-t Rich Declares
Road Virtmaly Ia Unafected
by Acten of Men.
A funeral strike of all union employee
ot the Washington-Virginia Railway
Cmeupany was ordered yesterday. Lssu
anee of a similar order to union employes
e of the Washington and Old Dominion
Railway will be decided at 10 o'clock
this morning. This action will depend
upon the answer of the general manager
to a request for a conference on the de
mands submitted yesterday.
It was learned last night at union
headquarters that if the conference re
quest was refused, an ultimatum de
manding the submission of the list of
grievances to a board of arbitration will
be handed the company.
Approximately 10.000 persons will be af
fected by an effective strike on the
Washington and Old Dominion system.
Most of this number live in the sur
rounding territory traversed by the lines
of the company and are employed in
government departments and stores In
Washington.
Empleyes Lecked Out.
Following the "lock-out" of approxi
mately forty employes of the Washing
ton-Virginia system yesterday for union
affiliation, a general strike was called at
a meeting held in Ballston yesterday aft
ernoon. The employes discharged are
motormen and conductors on the Falls
Church division.
Oficials of the empany and employes
of the Washingte. Alexandria and
Mount Vernon dIridens stated last night
that net sue of the empie1eeof these
divisions had "walked out." Strike
breakers were immediately placed on the
Falls Church division following the
"lock-out." and regular schedules were
maintained last night.
United States soldiers stationed at Fort
Myer last night patrolled the tracks of
the company running through the govern
ment reservation to prevent any damage
to property by the strikers Track
walkers patrolled the remainder of the
line to the Aqueduct Bridge.
At a meeting held In Alexandria last
night, the Trades Council, Glass Bottle
Blowers, and United Brotherhood of
Carpenters organizations passed resolu
tions offering moral and financial support
to the strikers.
Rezin Orr, omicial organiser of the
union, last night Issued the following
statement:
Strike Is Declared.
"After the demands were submitted to
the officials of the Washington-Virginia
Railway, the committee was instructed
that if no consideration today was given
to these demands a proposition for
arbitration should be submitted to the
general manager, but the hasty action
of the company In lmcking-out the men
prevented that mode of procedure.
- "I then advised the men to hold a
meeting in Ballston, and officially de
clared the strike in effect on account of
the lock-out.
"Action on the demands presented the
Washington and Old Dominion officials
is being held in abeyance until the com
mittee learns if a conference will be held
tomorrow. If not, opportunity will be
given the company to arbitrate the
grievances."
General Superintendent Rich, of the
Washington-Virginia company, said:
"The refusal of the demands has not
resulted in any strike, but has result
ed in the cessation of work by some
of the trainmen of the Falls Church
division. All our cars are being oper
ated on a full schedule and withl our
own men. The schednies will be
maintained."
POET AIMD DtT~lfml RCNID
Thr'eatened Bhiudneas of d'Amauute
Giveu as Cause.
Paris, April 6.-A reconciliation has
a taken place between Gabriele d'Annunsio
and Eleanora Dus after an estrangement
lasting two decades.
When phe learned that the poet was in
danger of losing hb sight the actres
rushed to Venice and reemined at his
bedside antil the crii was passed.
Paieies kpeot Early Verdiet.
London, April 6-LUod Grisaun,
ceummel for the American paea's i. the
co.a.-man cheh in the BrUi priss
ert, asa taday that he espeets a
de.withba the seat Saw days.
4The Hague. April 6-Hoeand has de
.nanded froms magn the return et
valueMe saermtime and decwmmin aes
in the als th3s troam Datah ship by
Nwdrd by es eem
( R3mil Usw gmianm)
Tucson, Ariz., April &-F. C.
Burke, Roderick Division, and
Conductor Wallace, all em
ployes of the Southern Pacific
Railroad, of Mexico, were shot
and killed by bandits nine miles
south of Rosario, in the State
of Sinaloa, Mexico, accordipg
to word received here today
by officials of the railroad.
The time of the shooting was
not stated.
Federal Agent Keys took
charge of the bodies which
were secured by volunteers sent
from the Thirteenth Battalion
at Mazatlan.
LOCAL WOMAN
GOOD SLEUTH
Miss E. M. Wheeler Helps Call
"Thirty" on Publication
of "Blue Moon."
EDITOR PAYS TOMBS VISIT
AS RESULT OF COMPLAINT
Alleged Many Budding Authors Fell
Victims of New Yorker Who Prom
ised to Buy "Brain Children."
Special to The Washbists Herald.
New York. April 6.-A Washington
girl. Miss E. M. Wheeler, Is among the
disappointed writers who called "thir
ty" on the publication of the "Blue
Moon" and caused the arrest of the
editor, also an author, and his incar
ceration in the Tombs today.
The "Blue Moon's" editor, Alexander
Jessup, served in another role as head
of a "critical revision business," in
which capacity be is alleged to have
charged fees of $5 and $10 for work
ing over stories to be published in the
magazine. If the editing fee was not
forthcoming, neither was the return of
the manuscript.
When Miss Wheeler threatened to
notify the postofice inspectors if he
did not return her "Missy Joe," Jessup
replied contemptuously that the Post
office Department could net investi.
gate him it it wasted t0, as such a
proceeding would be entirely unconsti
tutional.
Jessup, according to his advertise
ments inserted in the magazines, was
ready at any time to pay from 1 to 2
cents a word for any short stories
that were good enough to be printed
in the "Blue Moon." He was anxious
for new blood, he said, and did not
care for the reputation of the author,
so long as there was merit in the
work.
Her Kisses Not
Warmed by Love
Mrs. Ida Marcelle French Ad
mits Caresses, but Denies
Cupid Planted Them.
Speia. Cabe to The Washington Herald.
London, April 6.-Endearing appel
lations, such as "My Darling," "My
Dear," "My Dearest Man," and "My
Darling Fellow," did not mean that
Mrs. Ida Marcelle French had ever had
any love affair with Frank M. An
drew, who is mentioned in the suit
brought by the Kings proctor to set
aside her divorce from Capt. Hugh R.
French, of the British army.
Such, at least, was the emphatic
assertion of Mrs. French, as she testi
fied today in her own behalf in the
Divorce Court. Mrs. French, who is
the daughter of the late Robert J.
Wynne, at one time American con
sul general in London, elicited greaf
merriment among the spectators when,
after admitting she had applied the
above pet names to Mr. Andrews, she
exclaimed:
"I frequently hgissed him, too, but i
did not love him."
Strikers Battle
With Policemen
Two Hundred New York Cen
tral Employes Tie Up All
Traflic for Half Hour.
(Sylriimassal 16ees serie.)
Ne5w Yprk, April B.-A strike of New
York Cetral Railroad employes, inam
gurated yester'day in the Mott-Haven
yards and at Grand Central Tereisses
*""m"d serious proportions tonight.
It ,eaohed a citemak when 20striket.
partpaen in a pitohed battle with fifty
detectiree and reseves from four polies
stations in the yard amjaent to the mets
P"-gw trbs and all trafe mirth
ad mouth wee halted tsr half aa honr.
'Thirty-two strikers were arrested.
L..e.. AgeS a-Cat. MeDUI, et me
~ma Paie Iber Iahe Maan,
mint hieffn a Nhbmema tesgn.- *'
Feather-Bedee
Who Trailed (
Cross Bor
Yet-Sun-Day, Full Chief of H
of Two Red Men Who Cap
Days, Lead Band o
BeMai to 'b. Wasiueste Heri1.
El Paso, Tex., April .-With eagle
feathers in their hats and pistols in their
belt scabbards, twenty Apache Indians,
of the White Mountain Apache Indian
Reservation, in Arizona, today left El
Paso for the military base at Namiquipa,
where they will be placed on trail of
Villa to aid the United States punitive
expedition with their scouting powers.
The twenty Indians were in charge of
Capt. 0. P. M. Hassard, who is in com
mand of the troops of the Tenth Cav
alry at Fort Apache. Before setting out
from Holbroek, Aria., on Tuesday morn
ing, they passed the night in an Indian
war dance.
In the detachment are five regular
army scouts. The remainder have served
the United States in other campaigns,
and fifteen of the crew were engaged
in the trailing of Chief Geronimo after
he entered Mexico. The chief dignitary
of the group is Yet-Sun-Day, who is a
full chief, and one of the fourteen In
dians detailed to trail Geronimo, and one
$250,000 Hear
Against J. B
special to The Washingtm Herald.
Bangor. Me., April 6.-The second trial
of one of the greatest breach of promise
suite ever heard in Yew England opened
before Justice Bird, in the Supreme
Court, here today. The plaintiff is Miss
Elizabeth Garmong, of Bangor. who asks
$150,000 against John B. Henderson.
Washington writer. clubman. and multi
millionaire.
In January. 1915, also in Bangor, Mlise
Garmong was awarded a verdict against
Henderson of $116,000. This the law court
set aside.
Miss Garmong claims that her romance
with Henderson, beginning near Wash
ington in 1909, continued for many
T. R. CREATES
QUITE A STIR
Politicians' Hearts All A-flut
ter Following Casting of
Hat Into Ring.
CLOSE OBSERVERS NOT
SURRPISED BY HIS MOVE
Some Take View He Wished to Place
Committee on Guard-Receives
Deluge of Telegrams'
Special to The Weihington Heak.
New York, April 6.-The pitching of
Theodore Roosevelt's hat into the ring,
this time with a broad band of red,
white and blue on it, caused a mo
mentous flutter in the hearts of poli
ticians today. That something like
this was sure to follow the meeting
of Mr. Root. Senator Lodge, Gen. Wood
and the Colonel at the home of Robert
Bacon last week, was a foregone con
clusion, and the chief question in the
minds of those most interested is why
it came so quickly.
Political observers had but one ex
planation to offer for this feature of
the situation today, and that was that
the wrong interpretation had been put
upon the meeting in some quarters.
Adherents of Senator Root-and there
are still many who believe that he
can be nominated and elected-imme
diately jumped to the conclusion that
the fondest of their hopes was to be
realized, that Col. Roosevelt was to
get behind his former Secretary of
State, and pull in his Progressive
party with him. Adherents of Justice
Hughes-and they are legion, to all
appearances-immediately jumped to
the conclusion that the Colonel and
Mr. Root bad met to discuss the best
way of making Mr. Hughes the candi
date of both parties.
In the circumstiances, Col. Roosevelt,
it was the general opinion today, made
CONTINUED ON PAGE FOUR.
CUNABD OFFICIAL DEOPPED.
Hernana Winter Fosreed Ont Be
eause Father Was Gierman.
New York. April 6.-Hermann Winter,
for Bve years assistant general manager
ef the Cunard Steamship Company in this
city, has been forced to withdraw fromn
the company by the British government.
The only complaint againt hin Is that
his father 'was a German subject who be
camne a naturalized American 'citis
ety year. before Mr. Winter was born
in Baltimoere, Md.
VWG bgsd Women Usa.
Seattle, Wash.. Apii 6.-The bodies of
Mrs. Cerln Wheeler, 16, and Mrs. Kate
Swift, 3, formerly of Carthage, M.,,
were townd in their home bere todsy,
with th*i beads erushed. Three theta
e-h OiMt in cas, suggOEge to.~
ceAsces
)ld Gerosim.
der'After Ville
a Tribe, -and "Charley," One
:ured Wily Bandit of Other
Ancient Warriors. -
of the few still living who trailed that
chief.
Another Indian celebrity is "Charley,"
whose number is G. !O and who was one
of the two Indians who eventually
landed Geronimo. Charley's companion,
"Peaches," began a march of seventy
miles to get to Fort Apache in time to
Join the scouts because he was too poor
to buy a horse, and after walking that
distance arrived at Fort Apache three
hours after the train had pulled out.
Capt. Hazzard said he would not be sur
prised if "Peaches' walked the rest of
the way.
Charley Shipp is the most distinguished
member of the party from viewpoint of
letters. He is a college man and a judge
at the White Mountain Indian agency.
Chow Big, whose number is T. i. is
the sergeant of the party, and "Chicken"
is the first sergeant.
"Loco Jim," who is literally full of
scajs and bullet holes, is a veteran
fighter, and was one et the men to go
into Mexico after Geronimo. He served
under Gen. Lawton.
t Balm Suit
Henderson On
months in several cities; that he gave
her money and cared for her when her
child was born: and, finally, that he
made two explicit promises of marriage,
which he failed to keep.
The defense will be that so far from
there being any romance, the acquaint
ance was platonic-almost casual-and
that no promise of marriage was ever
made.
The trial opened at 10 o'clock. and most
of the forenoon was taken in getting a
jury. The taking of testimony began in
the afternoon, the plaintiff being first
called. She gave a detailed recital of her
relations with Hendetron, and had not
finished when court adjourned. The trial
will last several days.
FRENCH GAIN
MORE GROUND
Drive Teutons Back Between
Caillette Wood and Douau
mont, Paris Reports.
HAND-TO-HAND FIGHTING
NECESSARY TO ADVANCE
Germans Gain Footing in Village of
Haucourt by Desperate Attack.
Battle Throughout Night.
Special Cable to The Washington Herald,
Paris, April 5.-By means of a series of
small engagements, the French troops,
which are slowly recovering ground be
tween the Calliette wood and Douaumont,
regained today two hundered metres f!9
yards) of positions on a front of five
hundred metres (547 yards). The gain was
made by hand-to-hand fighting. A Ger
man counter-attack, which was started
toward night, broke down under the
French fire.
The Germans also appeared to be about
to make an attack on this side of the
river today, since they directed a violent
bombardment against the Cote du Polvre,
north of Bras, but the French artillery
at once concentrated a heavy fire on the
German positions and the German in
fantry was unable to leave its trenches.
A heavy German attack on the western
bank of the river last night gained a
foothold in the village of-Haucourt. The
attack was made simultaneously at two
Points of the Avocourt-Bethincourt front,
and continued through the night. The
attack at the latter point was completely
checked.
Simultaneously with the German attack,
the French forces at Avocourt redoubt
made a successful sortie for the purpose
of connecting up their own position with
another on the edge of the wood to the
north. In the course of this operation, the
French occupied the greater part of the
Bois Carre and took fifty prisoners.
ROBERS GET $15,000.
Held U~p cashier et Menstem, Pa,
Bak and Eseape in- Auto,
Canonsburg, Pa., A~pril 6.-Two men
robbed the First National Bank, of Hous
tonl. Pa., today of $51,00 and ecaped in
an automobile. Joseph KC. McNutt, cash
ler, was held up at the point of a re
volver, while his captor's Oampanion
robbed the vault.
Th. robbers then leaped late their wait
lng antomobile and sped away, Later the
maehhne aped through Crafton. a suburb
at Pittsburgh. Chief of Police George
'1aylme. on the lookout for the bandits,
atte tad to stop the car and was nearly
run down.
BritIsh Give to Relgians,
Lu4-m April .-Bnstand is costribut
lng W.IMSO monthly for the reliet of
3ei Sn ir Edward Grey the foreign
.r to DmW
sw of U. S. Trs
ft 11......11010 Nss ...ni.)
El Paso, Tex., April 6.-First
Chief -Carranza will demand the
withdrawal of all American
troops from Mexico within the
next thirty-six hours, according
to information said to have
been received by Gen. Gabriel
Gavira at Juarez tonight.
Gen. Pablo Gonzales has
been ordered to assume com
mand of the official troops in
the northern part of Mexico.
He is rated as the most loyal
of the Carranza generals.
Pablo Saenz, a former Villa
general, was arrested in El
Paso tonight and has been
held pending an investigation.
He is charged with being im
plicated in the new revolution
ary plot believed to be brewing
across tle river at Juarez.
POLICE SEEK
WAITE "PALS'
Another Arrest Expected a
Result of Baring $25,000
"Hush Fund."
$15,"0 CHECK PREPARED
FOR USE OF POISONE
District Attorney Announces Findis
Letter from Dr. Waite to His
Brokers Asking for Big Sum.
ny International Nee, 8meri.)
New York, April 6.-Another arre
may be made in the Peck "million dolls
poison mystery" tomorrow.
This annogncement was made by ti
authorities tonight. It followed recet
by Assistant District Attorneys Doolin
Mancuse and Brothers, of documental
evidence that Dr. Arthur Warren Wali
had arranged a "hush fund'' of $25,000 1
cover up the murder of his wealthy at
aged father-in-law, John E. Peck.
Waite, it will be remembered, said th
John S. Potter, undertaker, suggeste
the $5,000 bribe fund on Bunday. Marc
1. Waite eweesN that as a result t
his agreement with Potter. he gal
50.000 to Eugene Oliver Kane, unde
taker, next day.
Mr. Dooling said tonight that he had
letter in the handwriting of the confesse
poisoner in which Waite asked h
brokers to make out a check for $16,0
to "Eugene 0. Kane." The letter we
written on Monday, March 20, the da
Waite says he gave the 39,000 in cash.
The letter reached the dentist's brokei
the same day it was written. Soon afta
Its receipt, Waite telephoned and calle
the deal off. This, however, was afti
the brokers had sold New York Centri
stock for him and prepared to check I
Kane's order.
"You will remember that Waite tot
Judge Swann that Kane told him Potts
advised him not to accept checks," r
marked Mr. Dooling, significantly.
"I have summoned Kane to my on<
tomorrow morning. There may be a d
velopment of interest after our inter
view."
54 Lives Taken
By Submersible
Three More Merchant Vessel
Torpedoed Without Warn
ing by Germans.
(By International Ne. reric)
London. April 6.-The Peninsular ar
Oriental liner Simla, of 5.8S4 registers
tons, has been sunk in the Mediterranea1
presumably by a submarine. accordin
to a dispatch to the London Times. r
details have been given, a
Fifty-four lives had been reported lo
as the toll of the last twenty-four hour
in the destruction of two other mercha
vessels by submarines.
The other vessels were the Elder lint
Zent, of 3,850 tons, south of Belfast. as
the steamer Vesuvlo, presumably tI
1,391-ton London vessel of that nam
Forty-eigth of the Zent's crew wet
drowned when she was torpedoed witi
out warning. She was unarmed. Si
officers and men went down with tI
vesuvio.
U. 8. Gunboat at Swatow,
Amoy, China, April 6.-The Unite
States gunboat WIlmington is at Swa
tow, where the Chinese revolutionarit
are now In complete control, The eom
mander of the Wilmington is co-ope
ating with the United States consult
protect foreign lives and property.
Faason Pleads for Time.
San Antonio. Tex., April 6.-"Theps
tive expedition is barely started; give I
time," declared Maj. Gen. Fredsat
Funston today.
BgCoal Property Sold,
Copenhagen, April 6.--A Norwegt
syndicate, composed of banks and *$
ping conserss has just purchased S1
SI.8I.000, the property of the Ainweri
Arctic Coml Cemnpany at Advent Ba a
VILLA GETS Z000,
MORE TROOPS FROM
PARRAL TERRITORY
Bands of Sympathizers Who Have Been Ter
rorizing Country Flock to Bandit Leacier's
Standard, Say Reports from Interior.
U. S. CAVALRY 70 MILES AWAY
Advance Force of Americans Out of Conmnnication with
Base at Columbus for Last Seventy-two Hours
Mexican Defi Feared.
By H. H. STANSBURY. "
International News Servine.
El Paso, Tex., April 6.-Pancho Villa is in the inmediate vicinity
of Parral tonight, 105 miles slightly southeast on an air line from
Chihuahua. He has been joined by a force of 2,000 men assembled from
, bands of his sympathizers who have been terrorizing that district.
This information has been received by Gen. George Bell, jr.,
military commander at Fort Bliss and the civil authorities, from
s sources which they consider reliable. .
Gen. Funston has announced that the American advance column
of cavalry has reached and probably passed Satevo, seventy miles
north by west from Fapral as the trail runs.
These advance forces have been entirely out of conmunication
with the base at Columbus and San Antonio for the last seventy-two
t hours.
No Detate of Psiat.
The. difftculties of communtention due
5,000 TROOPS o The ..tao
GO TO BORDER deitoeoo t t that can
be understoodby the fact thatheo
netal details of the fight at Bachinabo.
All days ago, have not yet been received
it Recruits Enlisted Un4r at headquarters.
r -I Whether or not Villa will mnake a stand
Hay Resolution Ordered j at Pariat and match his new-fouwt
SBounda . strength against the tired, pursuing
t o American force is a matter of speula -
uan
Y NEED FOR MORE SOLDIERSf he continues southward there al.o
IN MErICO GROWS DAIY * " r anxety ne win 1
passing through a district where the. e
d is greater famine than in northern
Administration Far from Plasd with Chlhuelsa. And the famine.tagi. du
t Carrau's Delay i Offer- Ct" a'e i e**'s""e '. .l ve
d mattves had feed yw Villa
lag Aid. was in power.
To the people along the berder this
I Preliminary. It Is understood. to a large news is secondary to 'be letarmati.
increase in the strength of the American more vital to thea, that Carvemn is
expeditionary force in Mexico, the War preparing to istae an altimassm that
a Department gave orders yesterday for all Amerlans south of the bander, both
d the dispatch to the border of all recruits military and civil, will be treated as
which have been enlisted since March 15 enemies if the troops don't withdraw.
0 under the Hay resolution providing for Gavira Reeetves Nettee.
an addition of 20,000 men to the army.
anydto fl.f3mt oteam Gen. Gavira. the Caz-ramni commander
The number of recruits enlisted to date G Jare . Las received thi information
under this act approximates 1.00 men at ure. Sived ts nrmao
As apily s tey avebee taen ntofrom Queretaro. Similar nottces are said
Am rapidiy as they have been taken into Iohv enmn oalCrta an
- the service they have been assembled t garrj
d and placed under the training at Jeffer- on commanders In northern Mexio.
r For three days the secret agents of the
racs.n Ohia F souri;g Colorad, Band State Department have reported that
oracks. Ohr, Fort ogan. Colorado. and arms and- ammunition were being issued
Fort Alcatraz, California. Gens. Futsston to the ntivte liv-ing in the dietricts
(has requested that they be sent to the t the naiv i the isot
d border to take the place of seasoned hcommunication extend.
troops to be added to Pershing's com" Further verification that Carrana is
mand. contemplating some move that will pre
p Need for Treps Grews. cpitate a crisis is found in the attitude
The need of additional troops in Mexico of the Mexican officials.
is increasing every day that the expedi- Conru! Garcia, in conversation with
tion proceeds further into the interior three newspaper meen, made the flat
and adds to the line of communication statement that the American troops
with the border that must be maintained should be withdrawn Immediately. Later
at all hazards. It is believed here that he announced he had not spoken with
as soon as the recruits arrive on the the authority of the government. but
border, Gen. Funston will throw several was merely voicing his private opinion.
additional regiments across the boundary The enthusiasm which prompted his
from Columbus to guard this line. first comment, however. was predicated
Secretary of State lasing had a long a teleram reeived from Minister of
Seiear t tae asig s War Obregont. A request for the full
1conferene at the White (louse yesterday
afternoon with the President concerning
the negotiations with. Carranza for per- 10,000 Mexk Maae
mission to use the Mexican Northwestern V, V
Railroad. Although he declined to din- P1.LjmC1 Expe ii.
d tclose what took pce at the conference.Ai
d h it is understood tht the administration
It. inlcrnsgsoa Ken S-mw..
. i.t far frouot pleased over the deiay on the Daugla Ase. April n-T
- part of Carrnza in anating the privilngegs prvat opiion
T asked for A dispatch received at theh
irsdcommenty howve. was* pedaed
oState Department yesterday from Special a te r amr e fme s. te
WtaAent Rodgers at Queretaro simply
tex of s meessa ages. a refuse
P stated that Caana dtili had the mattertion
it under consideration. t hivt the lhe ao nference
adrv tthraunerstodthat headmsnstrtio
Soa-era late taihba-hu. a-ad erthe
i 52 TRUNKS NECESSARY the die ay eonuaiemt. thtehe
e ratt eaefama,
ae FOR TWO FRENCH WOMEN a heth
State thprten yestrda from" Specialas
twsett the ChaCair a:l Ahdt nta
Daughters of New French Consul Gmn- tte a N r
tr e te a"iiar berm e neta t
aemtI mia-misamthe esem
ThiseferiedingbeLuagapoe.tte
t tr oeationa ..Sey
fify-tw tuns btoaingtotheia-th dive thrah the pya.e o
Dagterm o f aso Newe Frew Consul Gen- odm Alt7(idy-A aew
.-u eal to t United Statesae i-ts Hard eoligt heitrS.ale
* Thetunkerendn Luatte .n ie eee aodigt ~ieewei
0 b Hbokn ro Hoghssa. his ee repae ost..deaad t
where hherepresettedmhis eoteenmettthe
It rqab-d th fify-tw t~sk tnitaed sTesa -Aprai -e easedimten
inteblninso h ise ne - the eved here f a ert e
mmd l~c Libest dag~tm-, f t, teen.th at aa tanda bAmteem -
rsy efmets ach d meti at
Nlae. ok April -ne byhua on ie' te ma-eout te 4.
fi-o tnk bethorit ing ote daugh telsrmtsaiNw nrie
d ere of Gaston IAbert, ne Pract con Lesion, Ay-rl 7 m (raAits e
asugeea to the Unieated States,~ are. ad transportegn to.5 the t idei ate
# iiga h oe aetc nheastben e-unt off t wast ie-n o
'-plcd hn.r Liber (ang a by the ar Daym. Thaa 5 v
. haHoke fro Hogog h, weere- td-ot
wher herepesened is overmen be
foehi rase t heUiedSats Rprtt M
