V Oflfl- TTtnr <1 <1 /fsl ■■ampiiiir"
year. No.
iU SERIOUS FIRE AT RIVERSIDE.
the most disastrous
tli.it has MU ill rnl ill till- county blot
■l, . onset.■ | ;11»It* polloll ol OUT nei^hbor
||||Hiowii oi Ktverside nil the map. The
.nit short 1 > after noon in the at
it,• <ii < Mental hotel, a large |\\o
suppose'l to have < anuht from de
iin wiring. The » itizens of
ol i In- i lames, lor. although tin* town
||||Ha water s> stein. the mains were
up dnriim tie- winter amt have not
out, hem e that means of protee
was useless. All that the excited
Hil.br ei 11 1 |i 1 ilo Was to save bllildillK'S
from tie- intense heat that wore
ami aviain ignited limn the flytim
.»>! S. lea\ inu those houses in the lm-
traiU ol the tlie to their fate. .»
\Miul was I'low niK I tom the north,
-n- nit brands a loiik distance. Ha
B|Hw ind I liom the south tin* entire
s pm lion ol the town woithi have
up
ii. . Mental hotel, lee house ami
We i e the hist to U". The (tames
to tm so lllll , destroying In. Fray
hospital and the home ol .1. A. Me-
At that point, the lire performed a
tieaU. over four build-
having them almost unscathed. and
the handsome residence of
A. 1 >la« k well. Only a piano ami a
.it furniture were saved. The
rv harn to the west, owned b>
t'mminiAliam. emi«ht from tlie
ami a hlaeksmilh shop and bakery.
hy Uni. were addeti to the
Fro iii I hose si rue lines the
||| swept liver the homes of \V. Ilart-
H. Thoinelson. wiping them out
■is the InnldiiiM enumerated a number
Hrns ami out houses added fuel to the
The home of (biy Cordon eattuhj
Highlit Mrs. Cordon bravely climbed to
and extinguished tlie blaze. Mr.
fnrn'tnre was removed to the
Hi. hut eanahl lire from the meat heat
entirely t onsnmed. The lire sim-
itself out without let or bind-
hospital were two patients in a
condition, wild had to he has
■vni'ivol. 1 »)i tuts liuil Just operated
Hiss Gladys Millun for appendicitis ant)
sowing Up tile incision when
oaugilit lire and the patient
he taken to a neighboring resi-
i’ev. .1. M. Rush, who lias been
from a protracted Illness Browing
la grippe. hatl to he carried to a
H of safety.
■p total hiss Is cstimateil at sonietliinK
Hr ncißhhorhood of SIIO.OOO, with in-
Ho l of only some $29,000.
tire has left a luibc and tiKly Bai
of the prettiest little towns in the
hut no ilonhl the enterprisinß
Hs who have suffered from the visi
■i will arrange to rebuild a better
of structures to take the place of
consumed.
COUNCIL MEETING
of the meeting of the town
of (uov die. W ash., April ;1, 1916.
Mayor Samson. Ooiincllmen
Smith. I'eterson and Fills.
of the previous meeting read
as lead.
from Fairbanks. Morse & Co., in
to overhaulhiß immpiuK plant was
IHand the clerk was Instructed to have
work done on the pumpinß
by the' Orovllle Garage & Machine
The report of .las. Ferguson as po-
was read and on motion was
r« port of the town treasurer was
an.l ortieret 1 placet! on lile. Motion
amt carried that the treasurer
ucietl to transfer SIBO,OO from the
was made that certain busl-
were allowing refuse tires to
late in the evening thereby causing
ol lire to neighboring property ana
was instructed to notify these
that tires of this kind must be
before dark. Gertain places
||^H'reported by the health committee
iiirr- in an unsanitary condition and
was Instructed to see that
was served on the owners to clean
premises.
motion the following hills were al-
ant) ordered paid: 10. It. Hoose,
and expenses $ 102.85; 10. .1. Wilson
HlßFerguson, police justice fees, $6.20;
mmt) ileigman. witness fees, $2.20: C.
labor on water works. $8.40:
A Co., supplies for water works.
Woodbury I.umber Co., for J. S.
street work. $22.50; .lohn Col
labor on water works. $9.60; I. N.
street grading $20.00; J. 11.
meal ticket. $5.50; lOd. Klingman.
redeemed by changing tap to
lilniling Printing Co., reg-
hooks. $10.27: Frank Hartell Sr..
ditch. $21.66; Schultz & Son..
BHlit and drayage. $1.90; Similkameen
Co., power and lights $102.80; M.
typewriting. $3.60. On rno-
council adjourned.
HR E. R. HOOSK. Clerk.
'Hhat fools we mortals be.
week the Quaker Medicine com
did oroville. and did it up brown,
methods employed to pry money out
pockets of the credulous public that
flocked to the Orpheum encroach-
upon the laws of the state
the out lit does not get into a bushel
ye t it will be a mystery. It was
c. however. In lining the pockets
manager of 1 lie combination, who
out of Oroville with a sack esti-
at anywhere between SI,OOO an
possibly an exaggerated guess
SfßUiow. those who were present and saw
as reckless with money as a drun
ifHsailor can realize that the show made
c lean up. Nothing can be said
the stage performance Itself. Some
stunts were as good as any to be
in the average vaudeville. It is with
prize and voting contests that fault
claimed to be a panacea for every
flesh is heir to. or a cake of soap
had the virtue of removing a stain
the reputation of the user, according
glib barker. In order to be a partlei
in the prize distribution, or to se
the* right of franchise in the voting
and that is what enticed the
from the pockets of the people
could ill afford the investment. It Is
port lug- bond, a squirt of which seems
hi the veins of all mankind. the
of the gamester that throbs In al-
every pulse, the glamor of chance.
hope' of getting much for little or
that Induced those who eough-
so prodigally. Prizes, some of them
ones, were distributed, but where
dollar secured such remuneration
H'i's and scores of dollars drew blanks.
week of touch was a esvere drain
the town. Much money that should
gone to pay legitimate debts, or Into
channels nf trade was kissed good bye
The people who did the turn are
good fellows. It Is their business to
upon the weakness of the human
and they are sure clever preyers.
gWs the public generally that will fall
such work, tha will play the part
marks, that is at fault for making
game so easy and paving the way with
gold and finely engraved bank
v for those who toll not. neither do
spin.
A NARROW ESCAPE.
Adiornoy ('has. F. Slgrlst went to Ross-
Hd last week for the purpose of securing
boxes of personal effects owned
I>y the woman who was shipped out of
Medley some weeks ago and died in Oro
vllie. And thereby hangs a tale. Mr. Slg
rist had a narrow escape from becoming
a victim hf clrcumstanciul evidence, and
missed lodging in jail by u close margin.
\ «*ry expeditiously and irino<*ently Mr.
Sigrist attended to the business Unit took
“•in to Kossland. Me found the ginnls f»i a
warehouse, lint their value did not Justify
pacing duly to carry them across tin* line
so In went forth on a still hunt for pur
chasers, representing that wearing appar
el aim silks could he purchased for a mere
si ug. This campaign for trade was car
ped on the Ural evening that he landed
in Uossland. At a late hour Mr. Slgrlsi
was aroused by a mighty thumping on the
door ol tlie room lie was occupying at
•he hotel. Opening up at the insistent and
persistent demands of the Intruder Mr
Signet discovered that Ids visitor wits a
police officer. Then lie was put through a
Killllng catechism. Fortunately for liTm.
Mr. Slgiist was ac<|iiainted witli Mr.
Quigley, tlie customs officer on I lie run.
i'he policeman hud seen Quigley before
interviewing Mr. Higrist, and the'eustoms
Ol fleer had vouched for him, but not being
satisfied the guardian of tlie peace made
a personal Investigation. At last Mr. Sig
list convinced the visitor that he was not
a breaker of tlie law, and upon a promise
that tlie chief should be sgen in tlie morn
ing the myrmidian of the law withdrew.
In the morning Mr. Slgrist saw tlie
chlei at a very early hour, in order to
relieve Ids nervousness, explained mat
ters, was most corteoustv treated and
given permission to dispose of the prop
erty that he laid traveled so far to secure
Mere is where tlie narrow escape comes in!
A few nights before Mr. Signal's arrival
at Itossland a robbery had taken place at
Nelson, at which time and place a 11 uar I -
tlty of silks had been stolen. The police
force at tlie boundary had been untitled,
and was keenly on the alert to nab the
guilty person or persons. The fact that
Mr, Slgrist had ofered silks for sale soon
reached the ears of tlie officers, and
hence the natural inference was that the
individual offering the goods was connect
ed directly or Indirectly with tlie Nelson
burglary. Mad it not been that Mr. Sig
rlst A’us known to tlie customs officer,
that gentleman would have found himself
in a very delicate situation, as he did not
know a soul in Itossland. Mr. Slgrist sees
the humorous side of the predicament now
hut it was not so funny when confronted
witli tlie majesty of a police star upon the
breast of a man who seemed determined
to do Ids duty according to ids lights. The
keenness and thoroughness of toe investi
gation on tlie part of the officials in tills
case gave Mr. Slgrist a very high opininon
Of the police system of British Columbia.
LOOMIS DOINGS.
•I. It. Marshall, superintendent of the
tungsten mine, lias sent a bunch of car
penters and mill men hack to the mine
preparatory to building the treatment
plant.
County Assessor Knoslier held a tax
meeting in Gallup's pool room last Wed
nesday. The meeting was well attended
and many interesting tax matters were
discussed.
It. P. Gallup’s residence, out in Horse
Springs coulee, was totally destroyed lu
ll re last Friday night.
The Adair brothers are excavating at
the corner of Main street and Palmer
avenue preparatory to putting up a new
store building for Tom Pierce.
After being closed on account of meas
les for two w-eeks our schools started up
again Monday morning.
J. M. Richmond, who is clerking at To
nasket, came home to visit his family
Sunday. His children are down with the
measles.
Father Sherman left Saturday for Spo
kane where he Is engaged to deliver a
lecture.
The Ivanhoe boys gave a dance in
Fugle hull last Friday evening which was
well attended and everybody present re
ported as having a most enjoyable time.
WISE UP.
The new state motor vehicle license
plates are a study in lavender, and the
man who wishes to unravel the hlero
glyphlcs thereon should always carry a
key to tlie mystery in Ids vest pocket. In
order that the people around here may
have such a key as a source of reference
the following exerpt from a communica
tion from Secretary of the State 1. M.
Howell, is published;
"The official color for state motor
vehicle license plates for the fiscal year
commencing March 1, 1916, and ending
February 28. 1917, is of lavender ground
with white letters and figures. The differ
ent ciassiflciatlons of vehicles will be des
ignated by a letter of the alphabet in
stead of wording, as used for the current
year, and the following is an interpreta
tion of same:
X—represents private owned.
A —represents automobile for hire
T—represents private truck.
H—represents truck for hire.
S —represents auto stage.
E—represents exempt.
Dealer represents demonstrating."
DEATH OF MARY JONES.
Miss Mary Jones, a niece of Mrs. Geo.
Stoltz, and daughter of Mrs. Lundstrum.
of Latah, born in Oregon, aged 15 years.
.‘I months and 23 days, died at St. Joseph’s
hospital Sunday from tuberculosis Infec
tion of securm and hip. Miss Jones was
operated on at St. Joseph’s hospital a few
weeks ago for appendicitis. From that
operation she had apparently almost en
tirely recovered, when she was taken with
excruciating pains at the base of the
vertebra. Drs. House, Efner and Lewis
were called into consultation, and it was
decided that she was suffering from
tubercular Infection. Dr. Lewis, assisted
by Dr. Efner, performed an operation
Sunday morning, when a very large sack
of pus was discovered and removed. The
unfortunate young girl was unable to rally
from the shock of the operation, and died
soon afterward. The funeral took place
from the M. K. church Tuesday afternoon,
and a large number of citizens attended.
COMMERCIAL CLUB MEETING.
Owing to the fact that the library had
been engaged for Thursday evening, and
that a number of the members were ab
sent at Okanogan, the regular meeting of
the Commercial club has been postponed
until next Thursday evening, April 13.
Next Thursday at noon, a luncheon will
be served for the Club in the library build
ing by the Civic League, and a business
meeting will be held at the same place In
the evening. It is especially requested
that every member of the organization
attend both the luncheon and meeting, as
there is considerable business that re
quires attention which could not be gone
into extensively and to any advantage at
a public banquet. There is work for the
Club to do, and it is necessary for It to
be done.
Hon. W. J. Sutton of Cheney, one of the
numerous candidates for governor on the
republican ticket before the primaries,
spent Tuesday night In Oroville on his
way to Okanogan and other points down
the valley. Mr. Sutton has many acquain
tances and friends in Oroville. who were
f (leased to meet him during his brief stay
n town. He is making a quiet ami digni
fied campaign, eschewing public speaking
and depending more upon personal con
tact with the voter to get acquainted.
Mr. Sutton Is a clean, upright gentleman,
and should he receive the nomination his
election would be foreordained. In that
case his administration would be one that
would be creditable alike to himself and
his supporters.
OROVILLE, WASHIN ITON, APRIL 7. 1916.
THE ABOVE PICTURES WER/ TAKEN ON SATURDAY, MARCH 25. ON MAIN STREET. REPRESENTING CARS
SOLD BY GEO. W. BARTELL, AND THE EXHIBITION GOES TO SHOW THAT OROVILLE IS FAST BECOMING A
DISTINCTIVE AUTOMOBILE TOWN.
EAST ORCHARD TRACTS.
Fred Strong has traded his eight acre
trad in licit Cox inr so acres near Tonas
ket. This Is getting ten acres for one,
which shows the feeling that exists
among people on the outside as to the
value of real estate situated near Oroville.
.1. A. Spencer la conllned to his bed by
illness and Is under the caer of Dr. Lewis.
CSeo. I. Cole has been doing a line Job of
scraping and leveling on Maple avenue.
Now let It be well graveled and we will
have a thoroughfare that our auto men
and teamsters would appreciate.
B. F. Neff from Everett has purchased
the William 11. Phillpott’s five acre ranch,
but the consideration of the purchaes has
not yet been made known.
A. A. Worley is making frequent trips to
his ranch on the Ellls-Forde Orchard
tracts. ROXY.
CIVIC LEAGUE ENTERTAINMENT.
There are a number of ladies In Oroville
who take no part nor pleasure In dancing
and heme have few opportunities to at
tend and enjoy public gatherings, for. as
a rule, dancing is the chief feature of
about every social function of a public*
nature held in Oroville. The ladles of the
Civic League have decided to give those
ladles who. by their own volition, are thus
barred out of the usual gatherings, a good
time and an opportunity to enjoy them
selves. An entertainment has been ar
ranged to take place In the library build
ing Saturday afternoon. April 15. espec
ially for this purpose, and that It will be
a delightful affair can be promised In ad
vance. There will be an admittance charge
of 25 cents.
LIBRARIAN’S REPORT.
The following is the librarian’s report
for March. 1916: Number of books of fic
tion withdrawn. 138; number of books of
non-flctlon withdrawn, 11; total. 149.
Number of visitors for reading and refer
ence. S; applications, 12; fines collected.
55 cents. Money paid out. 5 cents. Dona
tions. none. The library is open every
Tuesday and Saturday afternoons from
2:30 to 4:30 and Saturday evenings from
7 to 9. .
VERA SPENCER. Librarian.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Preaching morning and evening. Morn
ing service at 11 o’clock. Subject of ser
mon. “Obedience to the Heavenly Call.
Evening service at 8 o’clock, subject of
sermon. “Enoch, a Young Man who Walk
ed through earth to Heaven with God.’’
This Is the third of a series of sermons
dealing with the Genesis subjects which
the pastor Is preaching.
Sunday school at 10 o’clock. Come and
bring your friends.
A. W. BOND, Pastor.
CARD OF THANKS.
The undersigned take this means of
expressing their sincere thanks and appre
ciation to the good people of Oroville for
their kindness, aid and sympathy at the
time of the death of Mother Superior
Mary Scholastica, and especially for the
kindness and generosity shown by Under
taker L. W. Barnes and Trumbull & Co.,
undertakers. Spokane.
THE RENDICTTNE SISTERS.
OROVILLE.
L B. Jones, bend of the Commercial
bank, at Molson. syent Wednesday night
in Oroville on his way to Okanogan to
attend the stockmen’s meeting, and Inci
dentally to attend to some private busi
ness. As the train service was somewhat
shot to pieces Mr. Jones took auto from
Oroville for his destination.
The Orpheum presents Lois Meredith in
“The I ’reclous Packet.” for Saturday and
Sunday evenings, a popular actress In a
very popular film production. It is one of
those exquisite Patbe offerings that al
ways pleases, with bright settings and a
strong cast. The scene and plot are laid
In Canada, and is Intensely Interesting
from hcglnnig to end.
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
(Rev. G. H. Severance. Vicar.)
Services are held everv first and third
Sunday at 11 a. m. No services next Sun
day. Sunday school as usual at 12. Our
school is thoroughly equipped with mod
ern methods and the child is given thoro
ugh instruction in church and scriptural
knowledge.
NOTICE TO VOTERS.
Notice is given to voters In Oroville
precinct No. 3 that the registration books
will be open Tor registration at my resi
dence every day of the week between the
hours of 12 and 1 and 6 and 8 o’clock p.
m., except Saturday and Sunday.
L. F. STANSBI’RV.
M. E. CHURCH SERVICES.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Preaching ser
vice at 11 a. m. Pulpit to be supplied.
Epworth League at 7 p. m. Preaching
service at 8 p. m. Sermon by the pastor.
Everybody welcome; everybody invited:
everybody come. The homelike church
and the stranger’s friend.
W. W. STRITE, Pastor.
B. E. Gregory of Okanogan, was a visi
tor in Oroville Wednesday.
C. S. Adam, of Molson, was in town
Wednesday night, on his way to Okano
gan.
Sheriff Harry Stark was up from Oka
nogan Tuesday, called here on official
business.
Elsie Janis souvenirs will be given away
to all who attend the Lyric Saturday and
Sunday evenings.
A. L. Kltching has erected n home on
one of the Lake View Orchard tracts east
of town this spring.
Rev. A. W. Bond leaves Tuesday to at
tend a meeting of the Presbytery to be
held at Wilson Creek.
The Oroville Construction company is
putting up a residence for C. J. McKen
zie on his acreage on the Lake View Orch
ard tracts.
Quite a number of people from Oroville
and vicinity went down to Okanogan
Wednesday and Thursday, by train and
auto to participate in the good roads and
stock meetings held in that place.
Jas. M. Johnson and Miss Mabel Ann
Arden, both of Molson, were united in
i marriage in the parlors of the Radbourne
hotel. Rev. W. \V. Suite, of the M. E.
church, officiating. Sunday afternoon.
Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Mooney, of Chesaw,
were in town over Wednesday night on
their way to Okanogan. Mr. Mooney Is the
bright, young editor of the Chesaw News,
and like the whole force of quill drivers
in the county, a mighty likable young
gentleman to know.
Water has been turned into the ditch
from the intake and run down for two or
three miles. Great care Is being taken in
puddling so that the big ditch will safely
carry the heavy volume of water that will
be necessary to carry moisture througfr
ont the long system.
Downs & Kruger, the paint brush artists
have put a gloss on the interior of the
Oroville Commercial store that has chang
ed an erstwhile dark and gloomy interior
to a handsome, bright and cheerful show
place. A little paint judiciously distributed
works a very miracle in many Instances,
and this is one of those Instances.
Owing to a heavy slide two miles below
Chelan there was no train in Wednesday
night on the Orovllle-Wenatchee branch.
The Princeton crew took a mixed train
clown as far as Okanogan Thursday morn
ing, returning In the evening. The slide)
was one of the worst that has been ex
perienced on the branch tills season.
A party by the name of Henderson was
snatched up very early Tuesday morning
with three quarts of liquor in his posses
sion and with another three quarts under
his vest. When arrested by Marshal Wil
son he looked as though he had been bit
three several times with a pile driver.
Between the pile driving experience and
the Hot stuff consumed he was very much
of a wreck. Judge Ferguson hit Ids pocket
nerve to the tune of $55 and costs, alto
gether making it an expensive toot. The
troublemaking fluid was sneaked in
across the line, a route over which consid
erable of the tabooed elixir is traveling.
The members of the high school athletic
association are arranging to give a dance
in the Orpheum on Friday evening, April
2S, the proceeds to be used to relieve the
association of some of the debt accumu
lated during the winter. The boys are
deeply in the hole, and a generous public
can aid in extracting them from the pre
dicament by buying a ticket to the dance,
while they will at the same time secure
in return the worth of their Investment
in pleasure.
That movie favorite, Elsie Janis, stars
in ‘ Nearly a Lady” at the Lyric Saturday
and Sunday evenings. This is one of those
western comedies that always appeals to
the patrons of the moving picture plays,
and is crowded with action, life and many
laughs. In “Nearly a Lady,” Miss Janis
is seen at her best, and the mere announ
cement of a play with her in the leading
role is sufficient to draw a crowded
house. Elsie Janis souvenirs will be dis
tributed to all who attend the performance
Saturday and Sunday evenings.
Last Thursday Mrs. J. F. Samson gave
a party to guests made up of mothers ano
(laughters, and those present enjoyed a
very pleasant afternoon. Those present
were Mrs. J. F. Samson and her daughter
Mrs. Harry Reed. Mrs. Ed. Davis and her
daughter, Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Mrs. L. L.
Work and-her daughter, Mrs. S. B. Star
rett, Mrs. S. Bladder and her daughter,
Mrs. Robert Evans, Mrs. F. G rath wold
and her daughter Mrs. G. L. Armstrong,
Mrs. McMahan and her daughter, Mrs. A.
E. McMahan, Mrs. Frank Dallam and her
daughter, Mrs. G. H. Ellis.
Wednesday Geo. H. Ellis sold to Anson
W. Cobb, of Wenatchee, 20 acres on the
Lake View Orchard tracts, just east of
town. This is a sale of considerable sig
nificance, as an indication that men of
experience and knowledge in the fruit
growing business look upon the land under
the West Okanogan Valley Irrigation pro
ject as a most desirable investment. Mr.
Cobh is probably one of the most thor
oughly posted men on fruits and fruit
growing who lias yet invested in this
neighborhood. He accumulated his knowl
edge in tlie midst of the celebrated orch
ard surroundings of Wenatchee, where the
man of observation and intelligence can
learn the best there is about the industry,
and that is the kind of man Mr. Cobb is.
lie was with the Wenatchee Produce Co.,
for years, a position that placed him in di
rect touch with the fruit growers of the
Wenatchee valley. Mr. Cobb secured five
acres of fruit and fifteen acres for diver
sified farming, and he will proceed to im
prove his now possession at an early date.
Rev. A. W. Bond has started building a
new residence on his newly acquired acre
age. located south of the cemetery. Mr.
Bond, realizing the value of water Is al
ready putting the land In shape to take
water from the irrigation system as soon
as It is turned Into the ditch.
In another rolnmn the Sisters of St.
Joseph's hospital express their thanks
to L. W. Barnes and Trumbull & Co.,
undertakers, for generous treatment
at the time of the death and burial of
the late Mother Superior. The action
of Mr. Barnes and Trumbull & Co., de
serve more explanation in order to
show the extent of their kindness un
der the circumstances. Mr. Barnes,
who is the local undertaker, prepared
the remains for shipment and supplied
the casket without charge, and at Spo
kane Trumbull K- Co., took charge of
the funeral, secured a lot and would
accept nothing in the way of compen
sation. These were acta of generosity
that deserve public acknowledgement
and commendation.
91.60 PER TEAR
COMMUNICATED
I >ear Mr. Editor of Gazette—
Replying to the editorial in the last Is
sue of the Gazette, “Why tills Apathy?”
in regard to opportunities in the local
mining held when metal prices are so high.
It appears that these very iiigii prices
are Just tlie reason that money cannot be
secured for undeveloped property. One of
the mining broker of Spokane went to
New York to get money for development
purposes ami on his return he slated:
“Development propositions do not Interest
them at all unless the property can lie
shown to need only a certain amount of
work or equipment to put it. In a very
few months on a paying basis.”
Two years ago an offer was made to
put in $.10,000 for development purposes in
one of our copper properties. The offer
was declined as the owners were not In
clined to let go. A few months ago these
same parties were asked if they would
still make the same offer ami the answer
was; “Nothing doing at proaont as our
people are all crazy over ‘war stocks.”
We have Just bought the Midvale sleei
plant and the stock was oversubscribed
more than 100 per cent.”
It is a mistake to think that there is
“apathy on the part of the claim owners.”
It is far worse than that. They have an
exaggerated Idea of the value of an un
developed mining prospect. They dream
in millions and get nothing. There is.
however, a very real apathy on the part
of the business men of Orovllle in regard
to the large and varied mining interests ot
this locality. With one or two exceptions
a heart to heart talk with them will re
veal the fact that they “have grave
doubts" that there is a chance of there
being any mines in this section. The
local atmosphere is apathetic. Mining in
this section has passed through a bap
tism of lire, partly from ignorance and
partly by reason of wild cal operations
but there are indications that the near
future will prove the actual merit of this
camp.
Apathy of claim owners. In no known
t amp has such a fierce strugle been made
b\ the owners of mining properly as here
and the records of the local freight office
will show that shipments have been made
from the following properties;
The 1 Mvidend has shipped 50 cars, the
O. K. 7 cars, the 49th Parallel 2 cars, the
the Clin root 5 cars. The Owasco has pro
duced upwards of $50,000 in bullion and
concentrates. The Craig, just outside of
the city limits is getting out ore to ship.
These properties are all on Kruger momr
taln and only the high grade ores have
been touched. In every case there are Im
mense bodies of low' grade ore that can
only he profitably handled by big capital
ala profit. The Condlt Brothers are stead
ily shipping from the Horn Silver mine,
about 15 miles west of Orovllle. The Lucky
Knock (antimony) is shipping from near
Tonasket. The Arlington mine near Con
conully is shipping and developing. The
Tungsten mine about 20 miles from Loo
mis is shipping and taking In machinery.
Fred Neal is developing Ids tungsten mine
near Tonasket. Dr. Efner Is getting ready
to ship ore from his property. Properties
near Golden are getting ready to ship out
a few r cars of ora for smelter tests. The
Ivanhoe mine has spent upwards of |250-
000 In the past two years and Is now block
ing out their ore and getting ready to
spend probably not less than $250,000 for
mill, trams and other transportation fa
cilities.
It is not apathy, Mr. Editor, and we are
not quitters, but are continuing to "saw
wood" with all the saws we have got.
J. C. FISHER.
Secretary, N. W. Mining Assn.
Oroville is becoming a groat auto
mobile town. Almost every day the
main street is lined with cars, and ev
ery few days new Investments are
made in that class of property. In this
swift day and age an automobile has
ceased to be a luxury. It has become
a necessity.
R. F. Hoffmark, manager for A. Gu
thrie & Co., in the construction of the
West Okanogan Valley Irrigation sys
tem, was called to the head office in
Portland, Friday last. He expected to
be absent a week or ten days. During
his absence D. T. Chamberlain will fill
the position of manager.
Do not overlook the vital importance
of registration. Every voter in the
county, whether living in town or in
the country, must be registered in or
der to vote at the next election. When
once registered, It is not necessary to
register again for four years. In the
meantime, if you are not registered
this summer you cannot vote for four
years. Both men and women entitled
to the franchise should beat this In
mind and get their names on the
books as soon as possible.
Friday last was campus day at the
high school, and the entire force of
students was out with rakes and
other implements of peace and
hard labor cleaning off the school
grounds, much of which stands
on edge as the school house is on the
brow of a hill, which slopes down
pretty speedily from the front eleva
tion to the flat. The rubbish was burn
ed and when the lads had finished their
labors the surroundings presented a
greatly improved appearance. The
girls of the domestic class did their
share by furnishing a toothsome feed
for the hungry laborers.
Last Friday evening a lecture was
billed to take place In the auditorium
of the high school, at which four gen
tlemen thoroughly familiar with the
subject talked on fruit tree spraying,
something that all are or should be,
deeply interested in. Owing to other
attractions in town that had greater
pulling power and the fact that the
public generally is not particularly In
terested in the modus operand! of
eliminating bugs, pests and insects of
a tree destroying nature the attend
ance at the lecture was exceedingly
meagre. The gentlemen unloaded the
information they had on their chests
to the few present, just the same, and
it was knowledge very valuable as to
when to spray, how to spray, and what
to use to secure the best results. Con
sidering the importance of knowing
how in this constant warfare against
the enemies of the fruit tree it is to
be regretted that every orchardlst in
the valley was not present.
fit
I
