VOL. 30 COLUMBIA, LOUISIANA, FRIDAY, APR. 7, 31b1
DEMO(?RATS, ATIEUJIeN!
The General Eection Wl! Take
Flace On
Tuesday April 18th 1916
Slouisiana Expect:. Every Democrat
To Do IHi. Dt.t'
The only hope 1',, he n' mooe
reptublican ticket hi ,f be'in,
elected is f,: ll; d i t:.c rat s (,f
this state, and easpeiai ly of :he I
country parishes &) slay at hona,
and not go t) the polls a td v,;te.
We do not believe y:li will aid
them by stayi:ng at hmew anrd
not doing t ull' it, ;t a go, d
citizen. The den;, e: no; -
nee for go. leli :, ,: . lin , .
Pleasant, dto a i'ht'.,- .
ward, mrraniy and Iop' :i:Tht any
was nomina L- d ," n2; ,\ ,i'V,. 1, ii1
ing" Iajoritv' a.. ,p r, I th a; .1
thenselvev at t:h. hail, o:.I: 1i,(
legislature adr:i ai! t li i~t, t' - b:
cers willi be .d2ni ' ,n-. Ce;y (
how foolish t,, el c: a: rogres a
sive party nI n 'i , ',.rn r it
order that he might t-ar up an{ a
destoy the deocraliaci party io I
this state. Col. PIi:a.::nrrt is
native son of Louisiana, educat
ed in her schools, d'o, i to het
best interests and wail ,ualifie [
to serve the peoIpl fai: fully as ii
he has pledged himrse: i to do. He
stands unqualifidly on the plat t
form heretofore issued,and ther( '
is no sound reason why any der- e
ocrat should not loyally support a
the ticket. The electhio of th k
democratic ticket wil! prove ar r.
endorsement of the spl.adidl ad
ministration of Pre:idet Wilsor
and will give added strength tc
the national canpaign n xt fall.
The eyes of the nation are turne tl
to this state. Mr. Parke r's elec :
tion will be herald as a republi- 1
can vickry and as a harbiigei,
of the breaking, up of te soutl
by that party which h:.s neve,
proven its friendshi; either it b
the state or nation for this por- cl
tion of our fair land. ti
We appeal to you as loyal sons k
of Louisiana, who are tar-sight- n
ed enough to see the situation in e
its true light, that you lay aside t
your work for a short while and f
go to the poils on ele:tion lay t
and 'S:art p the Rooster' in or- t
der that we may rturn ;tn over- t
wheming demo-raiie majocity, t
and defeat this mined c(ombina- t
tion that has ear ,d its head at s
this time. At 1{v;t m and at B.r- t
ton the pr)gressi 'e candidate for I
governor declared he ,id nt I
wart the vote of any man who r
participat'd in the democratic 1
primary fo, st. e oiiicer.; decar-- t
ed that he waniten the gverror
ship to come to him clean ;'it
came at all, acId alnouncel, tht
it would be politically d (ti-.1)o st
forl any man t ! participate in t l~
democratic primary or to ,
polls ia April and vtju f,'w r thi'
progressive candidate for o, ov'rn
1r. iHe is now askinr h,, ii I n,:
-,:t: to comt mit p),litical l):'J;i:
by supporting h1is camliida:'y.
SUCh atiin would b eli ti
1 viOllng. lnd every hone I11,[1 ill
Louisiana is bound t, reco;lz lii:e
Democrats do your trtts.
L. E. Thomas,
Chair. I)em. State C'en. Curn.
, Spare The Snake
Alnofn.g the 1',,-t ,ith l e, e:, st
app;)reciated friend o,' . l'a ::-;
or are the hirm'lilcess sn:i',i+ es. i:s
a; the milk snake, ti."c; "
s-.ake, the a'arter :;sna: e,, ti.'. :!I
snake, ithe blotc!ed kin sak,
- .e blue snake, the bl::ck sa e.
tund some otiiers. All 1f l,, '
are the natural eiinmis o, r:s,
nice, weasels an(d similar ani
.nals that infest farms and vil
l lige homes, especially whe:re
there is poultry or other small
,ive ttock. In an article in the
Scientitic American Supplemen:,
Dr. R )bert W. Shufeldt of W\ash
in aton says that it wo)ul:l xell
repay every farmer in the coun
try to keep half a dozen harm
less vermin-desttroyving snakes, on
every acre of his place. Thous
ands of harmless snakes are
killed every year by boys, igno
rant farm hands and misinform
c. farm hands and misinform
formed women, in spite of t1he
'act that the Department of Ag
-iculture has repeadedl>y shown
that rats, mice and other rodents
cause a loss of a hundred million
.Iollars a year to our cereal crops
iione. Although most tarmcrs
aelieve that the common "chick
en" snake haunts their out
buildings in order to feed on
their young ducks and chickens,
the snakes do nothing of the
kind; but it does destroy great
numbers of young mice and oth
er pests. Man's dread and ha
tred of snakes, says Dr. Shu
I feldt, has been from the eiar!iest
r time a matter of of erroneous
- teaching. Harmless snaikes are
- the easiest ai:imai; in the wo:ld
',to tama, anrd it is high time that
- the false ideas about them
t should be corrected. More thn
- that, it should be taught that,
r like birds, they are among the
t test animal friends that the far
, nmr hs. If we destroy them,
we pave the way for the destruc
-tim of our forests, o wr staple
- farm products, and a good deal
less that now and always has
been protected by sn 'ks and
birds.
'i- u' :. I OUJISIANA
OFFICERS
L 'F. P. Stubbs, Pires.
-" C.E. I Bynum, V-e ILs.
- u, . ,f ti ;; Travis Oliver. Cashier
i H. N. Thompson,
' tAsst-Cashier
Depository For
STATE OF LOUISIANA
ASSETS ONE MILLION DOLLARS
A mple resourses, conservative management and courteous
treatment alike to those of large and small means.
The question is not whatier you should have a bank account,
but where you should have it. Our large capital and surplus is
your guarantee and safeguard. ,
We invite your account and have every faculty for efficient
handling of your business.
How Tom LaiIu, Il Frcc'ikl
.. a ( (the 1>8) uiy 'atser
i , an t he i t dL spi aI:ij)) ivcr in
( II L ( 'ou r . \Ar. T \\ S
r' a "I" i d a a S s:e. ('iy fal h
eor iu!' isei hunl. 1He was a
c 1.-a: t ,vrk:. never needed
!; ;iag, ttx, to S1A1,\w' h1ri
S at itl: hiV l i 1U ] Vo. ]IIe lnever
', ;1('1 to i, ci re !e ,, iah! a ii -
a- ,t , ou I ,' , \'n ye y
Sa seem
, Uii. i I I. . l 2 Ii " 1
ts n t()at tif. (SI ..21400'
. . ext. O1 ,I' ahl. ,e st :,ine a borr
- s let lad , b.u' t ol l t ,,e C. 1-e1 '
\- 'whose wie 1,as , ick, and my.
c It,,her o ,iý h. l t:aWy and walk.,
11 e i)i to see Mrs. Sutt~,n an 1
' s;,e.:t the cia., i th her. Fathe"
Swf gone from home and no on'
r I/
, Icr the house except Tont
li Am,.,ut suiset, Tom heard a pan
- tlh r sualing and his mate wa.
-ansv, rini nlt very far away,
n Toni knew in reason that myi
m,,ther was then on her wa.1
e , hmre -- and that this beast wa3;
- about the road-he knew fror
- animal instinct that the panthei'
i- meant to make an attack o04
a somn.thin'" ani reasoned that mi,
-mother might be in danger. II'
n w.,t into the house and got mn
r t
i h I e. Il'
1 .
Vin, e'u , a:;t. hi.
r s. j,
l .i ' ees.
the juice .ond uH dl :.', .
,orners of his tm oth \hb:1 ..
in yu~"u; g beos. I canl (, l
melmiber Tomn after he ,a. ,
of The old ne.lro was 'eicl(ii;
sic~ and died with old age.
In my next I will te!y ,,
thing of the John A. i.-': .
celan of rbb:rs and how the ,,
gro John came to be call--(, SI raý
rjohn.
(To be continued.)
I OUOPUtiW FORUM
George M. Reynolds
ON COMPETITION AND CO-OPERATION.
The future growth of the United States and its abill
ty to continue as one of the leading countries of the -
world depends upon co-operation of all lines of indus
tries and of government in promoting business progress
i for the prosperity of one industry reaches into and bene
fits other lines of business. Mr. George M. Reynolds.
President of the Continental and Commercial National
Bank of Chicago, when asked to discuss business co
operation, said in part:
"Twenty-five 'years ago competition was the dom!
nant spirit. The natural outcome was rate and price cut
ting followed by a series of railroad receiverships and
mercantile failures; the banks lost money, and a disheart
eninr number closed. The ruling passion seems to have been to keep a com
politor from getting business, regardless of consequences. Prices fell, unem
ployment was genieral and everybody suffered. The farmer could not get suf
ficient for his crops to pay interest, to say nothing of lifting the mortgages.
There were other contributing causes, but ruinous competition, the ceaselcss
scramble to build up a big volume, was responsible for a large part of the trou
bles.
We have learned better. We have found that as a permanent aid to
prosperity helpful co-operation ranks above destructive competition. The
lailroad officir.l, manufacturer, merchant, farmer and laborer, have reached
the very saEe that in assisting each o&ter in the work of developing a nation
they are doing those things that help themselves.
During recent years we have all been busy studying costs, over-head
charges and efficiency. If any of us operate at a loss it is bad for the commu
nity, tlhe state and the nation. This economic truth has been brought out by
our studies. Tha rule now is to seek the best methods for our own business,
;.iud ten see if our cxperience offers something for the advancement of others.
The business mwn, transportation manager, farmer and banker are closer
to,ethcr today thun ever before. There has always been a community of
interest. but it. v:.wa riot discovered until we had gone through many per!ods
of depression in which difficulties were multiplied by previous harmful coin
petition. Now we are all trying to help the farmer increase the produc
tion of his soil, and he is helping the balance of us in the tremendous task
of mai:ntaining normal conditions.
This spirit of co-operation is becoming more universal every day. Public
official. are seeking the light and are beginning to realize that the political
party that extends the most help to the various interests of the country;-
that d.votes itstlf to encouraging > rmony and keeping confidence aliv,
instead of hampering business by too much restrictive legislation-will be tile
party likely to, remain in power the longest. We must all pull together, cur
laws must not cripple any industry; we must ever keep in mind that the
prosperity of one industry or line of btitess reaches into and benefits otho"
lines of business."
INAUGURATION OF
TIROUGH TRAIN SERVICE
To and from New Orlans
The St. Loui,: Iron Mountain
& Southern Rai:w.y owns a one
half interest in t': franchises
and proper't. of the Trans-.,Mis
S tssippi Terminal 'a"il"oa Con
a!ny, operating the terminal fa
cii;tics and controlling all of the
property and fac;litios fri'm Mile
Post Nine on the Texas & Paecific
Railway to New Oricans, inT-id
ifig.all yards, warehouses, whar
ves and elevat'irs at Westw,~n,,
Amesville, Gretna, Harvey ar,
Gouldsboro, La. There terminils
wire completed and ol;ý',! tfor
operation on February 1. !'.
and consist of a palatial i e. .
ger station and Covr (
·freight facilities, including rew
inbound and outbound reightp
houses af the latest desiý;,
team tracks, wareh.)usse, etc.
By virtue of a joint tracl :
contract with the Texa: &, P:ectic .
Railway, the St. Louis, iron ,
:,::in and Sout.. rn Railway
<iired trackage rights
ver the Texas & Pacific Railway
w.,,'1oeii Alexandria, La., and
li,. !,t Nine, a distance of
n tmie, iand. on April 1, 1916,
SI,, !<, iver will inaugurate
r,,. , ifreight train service to!
:ii f1, ,in New Orleans and oth
'ra "-:;Iississippi Terminal
diIrall stations south of Mile
- ine, Ulp,)n a fast schedule
1( e lattr announced in detail.
'Ih1,,011gh Ipassenger train ser
'e w\ill not be established ati
..r sent time, and such traf
i, r ., t outed, will be hand
, trains of the Texas &
t', i· :iliway as heretofore.
i i :' idng'l, rights and priv
o,: the St. Louis, Iron
,:ý.: n" & Southern Railway
S. w Orleans terminal road,
ii <, in a~l respects the same
i: ow,,ned and operated an
; !d) ,dt line of railroad to
S) t'; irns, except that under
j, it trackage contract the
, .r oi the St. Louis, Iron
'.:,ui, & Southern Railway
i ta' t handle local or inter
anKe: trafic traffic to or from
Satioln between Alexandria and
*l, Post Nine, nor local traffic
: i:t origin on the Trans-Mis
:ippi Termninal Railroad (New
!eaus. Gouldsburo, Harvy,
. -etnra, Amesville and Westwe
I) and final desaination at Alex
:dria. nor local traffic having
igi ; at Alexandria and final
-sti-Iation at points on the
ýº. -Mlississippi Terminal Rail
r ad (New Orleans, Gouldsboro,
I evey. Gretna. Amesville and
Westwego), but i i , .
Trans-Mississippi 'Tl r,,. .: l: -
road stations. alo o,,. Iri, , I
thr,.ugh Aleand i:i,. usi:t.;cet e,,
to restrictions U.,taired
freight tariffs.
Through freight rates flv, -
sary to these operationsll I ut -
ready in etfeut .ia t he St. l.,u .
Iron Mountain & Southýtr i tau, -
way will be pIblished eifecti\l,
not later than Apri: 1, ,b au; h,.
ity of permission grantee by th :
Interstate Commission to mn;i,,
the same effective on less thtai:
statutory notice.
Carriers are req:uested to a; -
vise their Officers. Agents anl
outside representatives of tthet i -
auguration of this new through
route and co-operate in the soli
citation and movement of tratti.:
available.
All matters perraining to the
establishment of a d d i t i o n at
through rates or to the adjust
ment of those at present in ef
feet will, upon request. be givein
prompt and vety careful consik,
eration.
H. M. Adams,
General Traffic Managter
,OiR ENrFu. ORzlAM ZAThN
Is Devoted to
Home Furnishing Business
o' FuE ARE SPECIALISTS. For over fifteen years
all our energies have been directed towards
supplying the demands of Home Loving Public.
How best to serve you in the furnishing of
your Home receives all the study of this great or
gaznization. All of our experience serves wholly
Sonionte greater efficiency in suppyling one line
Si merchandise.
Do you wonder that we are Head
ouarters? that we are North Louisiana's leading
Furniture Establishment?-that we are
ai ii to offer vastly superior service and buying ad
van:ages?
E CGUILDN'T AFFORD TO SELL OTHER THAN
S.rictly Reliable Goods
On acceunt of our immense business, manufac
tu~rs are anxious tor our accounts. We have the
choice ot all makes. We choose only those of the
Sgreatest merit. You'll find it just as easy, through
our liberal purchase plan, to own the better kind of
furniture, and we can, and do, save you many dol
lars.
We have provem the trh of these statements
to hundreds of custoers. We can do the same
Swth you. PUT US TO TE TEST.
FREIGHT PAID ON ALL ORDERS OVER $10.00
MONROE FURNITURE CO.
132-138 NORTH SECOND ST.
'MONROE, :: :: LOUISIANA
WANTED
1000 Chickens
Will pay highest price in
For all Chickens brought
to me.
Albert DeBend
Columbia, La.
