MR. AND MRS. VOTER of Everett, the Labor Journal has something of importance to say to you. Have you registered since the firs! of this year?
If you have not, will you perform that duty at once? You ask, Why? Well you are a lawmaker now, just as truly as though you were a member of the legislature,
* sitting in the capital building at Olympia. The initiative law gives you the power as a citizen and a voter to pass directly upon proposed legislation. You may initiate
* and pass your own bill under the initiative or you may invoke the referendum against bills the legislature passes which you consider are not to the best interests of the
people as a whole. The opponents of direct legislation would like to emasculate direct legislation or repeal it altogether. It must follow that they don't trust your
intelligence or judgment to pass upon legislation personally. They say, in effect, that you wont use this power intelligently. It is for you to show them differently.
There are four initiative bills now being circulated throughout the slate. In this issue of the Labor Journal these bills are outlined so you may understand their import.
' If approximately 32,000 signatures are obtained to these petitions, the measures will go upon the ballot at the next general election. Will you sign and help to circu
late these petitions that the voters throughout the slate may have a chance to cast their ballot upon them? The first requisite is to be registered. If you have not
signed the registration books since January Isi last, do so at once so that you may sign one of these initiative petitions. Don't delay, for procrastination is the thief of
time. Go down to the city hall and get your name on the books at the first opportunity. Good citizenship consists in doing the things essential to good government.
The fundamental of good government is individual realization of responsibility and individual action in line with that realization. REGISTER NOW!
Register Again!
Do It Now!
VOL. XXV.
Four Measures Endorsed
WORD OF WARNING
JOINT LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEE
WILL INITIATE FOUR BILLS
ONLY—BEAR IN MIND
THE NUMBERS
The Joint Legislative Committee is
an organization formed some years
ago for legislative purposes. It rep
resents the following four organiza
tions: State Federation of Labor,
State Farmers' Grange, State Farm
ers' Union and Direct, Legislation
League. It was formed to effectively
carry on the campaign for the adop
tion by the people of the Direct Legis
lation Amendment to the State Con
stitution, which campaign was carried
to a successful conclusion. Two years
ago the organization conducted the
initiative campaign In behalf of the
"Seven Sisters." Last year it in
voked the referendum successfully
against seven measures passed by the
last legislature, which measures will
go before the people at the election
next fall. This Committee endorses
no partisan candidates for any office
Fisheries Code Amendments
BILL TO AMEND
FISHERIES CODE
INITIATIVE MEASURE NO. 22
Legislative Title. —An Act relating
to the fishing industry, and to the
protection and perpetuation of salmon
and other food fishes, regulating the
taking of salmon and other food and
shell fish, licensing appliances there
for, providing for license fees and
charges, providing a lien upon rppli
ances and upon fish caught for the
security of the payment of such fees
and charges, and amending Sectioss
1, 10, 34, 48, 51, 52 and 58 of the
Fisheries Code of Washington, being
Chapter 31, Laws of 1915.
This bill amends the present fish
eries code, provides a greater revenue
to the state from the fishing industry
and abolishes the use of fish traps in
l'uget Sound waters. It gives to the
Stats Fish Commission power to pro
hibit fishing for both food and game
fish in any waters of the state when
such action is considered necessary
for the protectios of the supply. The
use of fish traps and set nets is pro
hibited in Puget Sound waters. The
present fish code provides that the
revenue received by the state from th e
fishing industry shall be used in the
maintenance of the Fish Department
,of the state only. The proposed bill
provides that such revenue shall go
into the general treasury of the state
to be used in maintenance of the Fish
Department of the state and the
general conduct of the state govern
ment.
Only a nominal license is placed
on boats, gear, equipment, etc., the
main burden of the tax being placed
on the fish caught. No license fee
to catch, can, preserve or deal in
fish exceeds one dollar per license
except buyers on the Columbia river,
whose license fee is (ixcd at fifty
dollars. The tax on fish runs as
follows:
Chinook, tyee, king, black mouth or
spring pinion, fifteen cents each;
steeelhead, six cents; sockeye, three
cents; silverslde, two cents; chum or
dog salmon, one cent; humpback or
pink salmon, one-quarter cent; stur
geon, thirty cents; each one hundred
The extent of its political activity as
far as candidates is concerned is to
makepubllc the record of members of
the legislature upon measures in
which labor and allied forces are in
terested. Its function is to campaign
for or against , measures of public in
terest with the initiative and referen
dum weapon.
This committee is now initiating
four measures which will be outlined
briefly elsewhere in these columns.
These measures are as follows: No.
IS). Non-Partisan Statewide Primary
Law; No. 20, First Aid Amendment to
the Compensation Act; No. 21, Public
Utility Measure; No. 22, Revised Fish
Code. It will be well to bear In
mind the numbers of these bills as
this Committee will initiate no others
this year It is just possible that other
interests may try to initiate bills
bearing on the same subjects these
proposed laws cover, so remember the
numbers of the bills the Joint Legis
lative Committee is backing: Initia
tive Rills Nos. 19, 20, 21 and 22
pounds or fraction thereof of smelt
or herring, five cents; each one hun
dred pounds or fraction thereof of
shad or cod, twenty-five cents; each
one hundred pounds or fraction there
of of shrimp, twenty-five cents;
each gross of crabs, fifteen cents;
each ton of clams, gross weight in
shell, seventy-five cents. Provision
is made that the owner of each fish
appliance and the person and firm
to which fish is sold shall make
monthly reports to the fish depart
ment stating the number or quantity
of fish caught and remitting fees
therefor. Any person or firm failnig
to make such reports or failing to
remit such fees shall be guilty of a
gross misdemeanor and shall be pun
ished by a fine of not less than fifty
nor more than five thousand dollars,
or by Imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than one year or
both such fine and imprisonment.
The amounts owing by any such per
son shall become a first lien upon the
fishing appliances of any such person
and also upon the fish. A provision
is made that upon conviciton of the
second offense a penalty of imprison
ment of not less than ten days nor
flicted upon the person so convicted,
and in the case of a firm or corpora
tion being convicted upon the sec
ond offense the imprisonment shall
be inflicted upon the managing head
thereof residing in this state.
It is made unlawful for any person
to take fish from the waters of the
state unless such person shall be a
citizen or shall have declared his in
tention to become such and is and
has been for twelve months immedi
ately prior to the time he engages in
such business an actual resident of
this state. This provision does not
apply to Indians.
We wire houses, install motors, and
repair anything electrical. Our stock
of electrical fixtures and supplies is
the largest in the city. In that new
home install some of our Cora Semi
Indirect fixtures. Bryan Marsh Maz
da lamps, portable fumed oak lamps.
Hot Point appliances. We sell them.
Jones Elect rlct Co.. 2810 Colby.
Ind. 66; S. S. 1325.
The Labor Journal
PROPOSED CHANGES
IN ELECTION LAWS
INITIATIVE MEASURE NO. 19
Regulating of Elections.
Legislative Title—An Act relating
to, providing for, and regulating of
elections held in the State of Wash
ington, providing for the method of
nominating and electing of candidates
tor public office, and providing for
and regulating the submission of con
stitutional amendments, laws submit
ted under the Initiative and Referen
dum and al! other questions and pro
positions which by law may be sub
mitted to the electors of the state
of Washington for decision, the mak
ing election days legal holidays, pro
viding for the holding of a presiden
tial primary to ascertain of the elec
tors belonging to a given party their
preference as to who should be the
nominee of their party for President
of the United States and as to the
inclusion and exclusions of proposi
tions in the national platform of their
party, providing for the protection of
the purity of elections and guarding
against corrupt practices In and re
lating to elections, and providing
penalties for the violation of the pro
visions of this Act.
This proposed law is extremely
lengthy and space will not permit
printing it in its entirety in these
columns. We will endeavor to give
an outline of its salient features and
recommend careful study by the elec
tors.
Under this law there will be no
party designation on the September
primary ballot on judicial, municipal,
county or state offices, including the
state legislature. Candidates may run
for any of the above positions by fil
ing a declaration of candidacy and
paying the filing fee provided by law
and their names will appear upon the
ballot without any reference to their
party affiliation. Party columns will
appear upon the ballot for congres
sional nominations, the non-partisan
feature not applying to candidates for
congressional nominations.
PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARIES IN
MAY
The bill provides for presidential
primaries to be held in the month of
May in which presidential nomina
tions and elections occur. The presi
dential primaries shall be held on the
first Tuesday in May of presidential
election year at which primary the
voters of the respective parties may
elect delegates to their national party
conventions. At the same primary
the voters may express their prefer
ence for party candidates lor presi
dent of the United States. This is
done by petition of voters signifying
their intention of voting for a certain
MASS MEETING
THE OFFICIAL PAPER OF THE
DEVOTED TO THE INTEREST
EVERETT CITIZENS INVITED
Open Discussion of Proposed Initiative Measures and of
Electric Light Rate Case
GOOD SPEAKERS=OPEN FORUM
EVERETT, WASH., FRIDAY, APRIL 7. 1916
party in the national election, said
petition to bear one per centum of
the votes cast for president of that
party at the last national election.
A candidate for delegate to the na
tional convention may pledge him
self upon the ballot to lUpport a cer
tain candidate for presidi nl if he so
wishes. He may also pledge himself
upon the ballot to supper! any cer
tain* proposition in the national con
vention. To illustrate: Suppose the
question of national prepai edhess had
become a national issue to the extent
that national conventions would make
the subject a part of their national
platform. The electors of the vari
ous parties desiring to pledge party
convention candidates upon that, is
sue, should fib 1 a petition to that ef
fect in the same manner as petitions
may be filed endorsing party candi
dates for president, convention can
didates might pledge themselves upon
the presidential primarj ballot to sup
port such a proposition.
Compulsory second choice voting is
abolished in the proposed law but
voters may vote second and other
choices at their option.
THE SEPTEMBER PRIMARIES
No party may participate in the
September or presidential primaries
which failed to cast three per cent
of the total vote at the last election
for any one of its candidates. Nor
may any new political party partici
pate in the primary election unless
it files a petition bearing one per
centum of the entire vote of the state,
setting forth the aims and purposes
of the party. Provided, however,
that in such case parties failing to
qualify to participate in the primaries
may hold a party convention on that
date.
The September primary election
day and May presidential primary
election day are declared legal holi
days. Any person entitled to vote
is entitled to absent himself from his
place of employment for three con
secutive hours between the hours of
opening and closing of the polls for
the purpose of casting his ballot.
Should such voter vote no deduction
from his pay for such time absent
shall be made by his employer. Any
employer or his agent who violates
this provision shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction
shall be fined not less than $250 nor
more than $500, or imprisoned in the
county jail for not less than three
months nor more than one year, in
the discretion of the court. However,
should any person employed absent
himself from employment and then
fail to vote, the employer may deduct
from his pay the rate of his wage for
such absence.
EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL.
OF ORGANIZED LABOR.
Publications are forbidden to so
licit or receive any compensation from
any candidate for office for publish
ing matter influencing or attempting
to influence voters in his behalf un
less such matter be plainly labeled
"paid advertising."
PENALTY FOR INTIMIDATION
Any employer, corporation or agent
who attempts to intimidate workmen
for the purpose of influencing their
vote for any man or measure, by
threatening discharge, closing of the
plant, salaries reduced or any other
threat, shall be guilty of a misde
meanor.
All corporations are forbidden to
pay or contribute or to agree to pay
or contribute, directly or indirectly,
any money, property, services or any
thing of value to any political party,
organization, committee, candidate t or
individual for any political purpose
or to seek to promote or defeat the
candidacy of any person. Penalty
for violation of this provision is pun
ishable by a fine of not less than $100
nor more than $10,000. In addition
to this penalty the corporation, if
domestic, may be dissovled and if
foreign its right to do business in
this state may be revoked. An offi
cer or agent or attorney or represen
tative of a corporation violating the
above provision may upon conviction
he fined not less than $250 nor more
than $5,000, or by imprisonment for
not less than one nor more than five
years, either or both such fine and
imprisonment may be inflicted at the
discretion of the court. Fines col
lected for violation of this Act shall
be paid into the treasury of the coun
ty for the benefit of the school fund.
Should the courts declare any sec
tion or provision of this law inopera
tive or unconstitutional, such decision
shall not affect any other section or
provision of the law.
The law covers every detail of op
eration but its extreme length will
not permit giving here but this brief
synopsis. The reader may gather
from the foregoing the general pur
port of the bill.
UNEMPLOYMENT VACANCY
FILLED
President E. P. Marsh of the Wash
ington state Federation of Labor an
nouneea the appointment of D. P.
Keid of the Electriea! Workers' Union
of Spokane to fill the vacancy on the
committee on unemployment caused
by the retirement of M. T Alliman
of Everett, who has entered into busi
ness for himself. The committee as
now composed is E. B. Ault, John
Downle, J O. Brown. John Shaimln
nessy and U. P. Beid.
High School Auditorium
TUESDAY ADD 11
Bp. m. Mr 81. | I
A First Aid Measure
INITIATIVE MEASURE NO. 20
Legislative Title. —An Act provid
ing for surgical and hospital serv
ices to injured workmen at the ex
panse of the industry to be paid for!
out of the accident fund; prohib-;
iting the deduction from wages for'
such expense and allowing a deduc
tion for the care and treatment of
the sick, empowering the Industrial
Insurance Commission to provide for
and supervise by rules and regula
tions surgical and hospital treatment,
creating a medical advisory commit
tee, and amending Chapter 74 of the
Laws 01 1!)11 and Chapter 188 of the
Laws of 1915.
The Workman's Compensation Act;
of Washington was the first of its!
kind enacted in the United States,
and was passed by the legislature of
1911, becoming operative October I,|
1912. The Act as originally framed
Contained a provision that in addi
tion to the monetary awards paid fori
injury the injured workman should
receive proper hospital and medical;
attention, commonly known as "first 1
aid." This provision was stricken by
the legislature on final passage. Of
the thirty odd states which have
since passed Compensation measures,
nearly all included medical and hos
pital service in the Act and labor
forces have steadily fought for such
a provision in the law of this state.'
The legislature of 1913 refused to,
amend the Act to include this fea-|
ture. One year later, 1914, labor
forces through the Joint Legislative
Committee initiated a first aid bill,
placing it upon the ballot in the fall
election. The bill was fought bitterly
i
by employing interests and was de
feated by a margin of approximately
eight thousand votes out of a total
of 197,000 votes cast for and against
the measure.
A BIT OF HISTORY
Following the election of that year
Gov. Ernest Lister appointed a Com
mission consisting of three repre
sentatives of labor, three employers
and the members of the Industrial
Insurance Commission, to draft a "
"first aid" amendment to the Work
man's Compensation Act to be pre- k
; sented to the 1915 legislature. The ;
measure as finally drafted did not suit
organized labor and another measure
embodying organized labor's views on
the subject was drafted and intro
duced in the legislature by Senator
John B. Campbell. Notwithstanding
that it was quite generally under
stood that employing Interest! would
support the governor's Commission '
bill, that bill was repudiated by
large employing interests in the legis
lature and a bill of their own known
as the Kleeb bill introduced at their
i
behest. Thjis bill was (particularly
obnoxious to labor, much more so
than the Commission bill, but passed
both House and Senate due to the
strong influence wielded by prominent
members of the State Employers' As
sociation in that body Gov. Lister '
vetoed this bill so again labor was 1
; left with no first aid provision of 1
any kind. i
, Initiative Measure No. 20, now be- I
j fore the people as part of our iuitia-1
' tive program was drafted by labor
j and approved by the North Yakima
convention of the State Federation i
jof Labor in session last January Its 1
! main provisions are as follows: 11
In Organization
Lies the Hope
of Labor
I HOW THE MEASURE WILL AID
WORKMEN
Upon the occurrence of injury to
a workman he shall receive proper
\ medical first aid and thereafter, sur
, Kical, hospital treatment, crutches,
I medicine, all appliances and treat
i ment necessary to aid recovery, the
cost to be paid from the existing acci
dent fund of thti. class to which the
I employer belongs. Deduction from a
workman's pay for the treatment of
accident by an employer is made a
gross misdemeanor but there may be
consent of the workman for the treat
ment of sickness only, such consent
!to be upon blank forms furnished by
I the Industrial Insurance Commission.
It is the duty of the Department to
J provide for and supervise all such
I treatment and to make appropriate
rules for the carrying into effect the
provisions of the Act. The Depart
ment is prohibited from summoning
jan injured workman to submit, him
self for treatment or examination at
, any place outside the county of his
'residence if such an act requires any
i expenditure of money mi the part of
j the injured workman. If the Depart-
I ment believes recovery can best be
j aided by special examination and
j treatment outside the county of his
j residence, the Department must pay
the actual and necessary traveling
I and hotel expenses out of the acci
j dent fund.
HOW WORKER IS PROTECTED
j The employer must pay the initial
i cost of transportation from the
scene of injury to the nearest place
of proper treatment and he must con
vey the workman to such place with
out unnecessary delay Should the
employer refuse or fail to provide
1 such transportation within a reason
; able time, the injured workman may
' provide himself with such transporta
tion and recover from the employer
through an action at law, together
I with reasonable attorney's fees.
The bill provides that there shall
|be a Medical Advisory Committee
consisting of the Chief Surgeon of the
Commission, the President of the
State Hoard of Health and the Presi
< dent of the State Medical Society
Such Committee to consult with nnrt
advise the Commission in respect to
the system or method of providing
treatment and care and all cost, fees
and charges and in the establishment
of and regarding
such treatment and care. This Ad
visory Committee shall serve without
pay, but shall be re imbursed for actual
and necessary hotel and traveling ex
penses while in the performance of
said duty, such compensation to be
paid out of the accident fund
Summed up, the bill provides for
proper and adequate treatment to aid
recovery from injury at no cost to
the injured workman and prohibits
the compulsory deduction from wage
for hospital treatment..
"Twenty Thousand Die in Fight."
Headline And the Socialist ll sup
posed to be stumped when he is asked
what incentive men will have to work
four hours a day under decent con
ditions and for the full value of their
labor —Ex.
You can't make a silk purse out of
a sow's ear, but many a capitalist
has made a bank account of a jack
ass' hide.
No. 59
