EEKLY
rrrv
THE TRIBUNE'S CIRCULA
TION IS THE LARGEST IN
CAPE GIRARDEAU. : i t
THE TRIBUNE COVERS
SOUTHEAST MISSOURI
LIKE THE DEW. .- : : s
A NEWSPAPER THAT PRINTS ALL TIIE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT AND PRINTS IT FIRST
VOL. XV.
AND THE CAPE COUNTY HERALD, CAPE GIRARDEAU, MISSOURI, APRIL 7, 1916.
NUMBER 13.
THE
rr tn tt ttt ui t tt
!L JKLU3 U 1 JtL
DOLLAR FAMILY
TMETSTOBE
FAIR FEATURE
Holders Will be Allowed to
Vote for Next Year
Officials.
COM'L CLUB COMMITTEE
CALLS IN MAYOR KAGE
Plans Campaign for $10 Member
ship Fees to Enter Rac
ing Circuit.
A family season ticket carrying
with it the privilege of casting one
vote for the officers for the ensuing
year will be a feature embodied in the
organization of the proposed business
men's Cape Girardeau Fair Associa
tion, if the approval of the organiza
tion committee is a criterion.
The committeemen met yesterday
afternoon in the office of Judge Ed
ward D. Hays for a discussion of the
plans for the fair's organization.
Mayor Kage was called into consulta
tion with the committee to discuss the
relation of the city as owner of the
fair grounds toward the fair venture.
The Mayor also gave the com
mitteemen several other suggestions
which they stamped with their ap
proval at once. The Mayor suggested
the adoption of the family ticket with
the voting privilege attached, and the
members of the committee indorsed it
without a voice of dissent.
The committeemen determined to
recommend formally to the regular
meeting of the Commercial Club to
morrow night that the new fair ven
ture be entirely non-commercial in
character.
The memberships in the association
will cost $10, it is proposed, and as
riany persons as possible in the Cape
and Cape county will be solicited to
join the association. The membership
virtually will be a donation to a fund
with which the fair will be financed.
There is to be no arrangement for a
profit on the stock or membership in
the venture.
It is proposed to hold the fair for
five days, the first day to be free.
Following that the single admissions
tentatively are placed at 25 cents and
the family tickets will cost $1. They
will pass an entire family through the
gate for the entire season.
In offering the suggestion, the
Mayor pointed out that the idea has
already been worked out by several
Illinois fair associations, which have
found it to work extremely well, creat
ing much interest in the organization
of the fair as well as the concessions
on the grounds.
The petitions for memberships will
be prepared for tomorrow night and
th.ev.will be circulated at once in an
eff?i to determine what the financial
support of the fair will be.
Judge Hays and O. A. Knehans,
members of the committee, were
delegated to draft a tentative consti
tution and by-laws which will be pre
sented at a future meeting of the
organization.
The fair promoters have received a
t nur.ication from the secretary of
the American Trotting Association to
the effect that under the rules of the
association, the proposed Cape organi
zation may join in the meeting that
will be held in Kennett this week-end
to fix dates for racing next fall.
As a consequence, Joel T. Nunn will
go to Kennett tomorrow to represent
the Cape organization in making the
fair dates.
Those who attended the meeting
were Judge Hays, A. M. Tinsley
(chairman of the committee), J. T.
Nunn, S. M. Carter, Will Hirsch, J. F.
Masterson, W. F. Bergmann, Sam
Sherman and O. A. Knehans.
SPEAKS OX CHURCH STRENGTH
Father Rolwing Says Pope is Not
'Boss in Political Game.
The infallibility of the Catholic
faith last night was described by
Father A. Rolwing, of Chaffee, in his
Lenton lecture at St. Mary's Catholic
church on South Sprigg street.
He said that the Catholic religion
is the only faith that has descended
directly from Jesus Christ through the
ordination of Catholic priests by the
band of apostles, who acted according
to their instructions. The knowledge
PAVE MAIN ST.,
IS A SLOGAN OF
W. J. SEEGRAVES
New Councilman to ask busi
ness Men to Act, If Pro
perty Owners Befuse.
WANTS TO HEAR THE
VOICE OF THE PEOPLE
First Ward Alderman Thinks
Voters' Wishes Should
be Respected.
William F. Seegraves, newly elected
councilman from the first ward, an
nounced yesterday that he would
devote his first efforts to pave North
Main street. He declared that he
would make a fight to force the Frisco
railroad to live up to its franchise,
and the water and light company to
keep its promises to the city.
'"I made no promises while I was a
candidate," said Seegraves, "because
the people have begun to believe that
candidates' promises in Cape Girar
deau do not go beyond the ballot box.
I do not contend that I will be able
to accomplish much, but I want to say
to the people who elected me that I
am going to go to bat for them.
"if Main street can be paved, it
should be done. If the property
holders along that thoroughfare are
unwilling to spend the money to im
prove this street, I propose to make a
canvass among the business men of
the city, asking contributions to have
the work done.
"The shoe factory is paying out
about $l,f)00 a day in salaries, and
these people are entitled to a decent
street to haul their freight over. I
believe the business men would be
willing to assist, if the property own
ers decline to pave the street.
"I believe in improving Main street
south of Independence, if the people
want it, and I understand the mer
chants are especially anxious to have
this accomplished. I believe every
councilman should listen to the people.
If they have requests that are for the
good of the city, I for one, propose to
hear them. I want every person who
has a suggestion to come to me. It is
ideas that make a city grow, and I
believe that by doing something, we
can help Cape Girardeau to grow.
"I do not believe in corporations
signing franchises if they do not pro
pose to keep them. I do not believe
in persecuting any individual or cor
poration, but I am in favor of com
pelling them to do what is right. The
franchises that exist between this city
and the various corporations ought to
be kept, and I propose to do what I
can to see that thev are."
HIGH SCHOOL OPERA STARS
STAGE A DRESS REHEARSAL
"Feast of the Little Lanterns" Will be
Given Tonight for Benefit of Don
Louis Lorimier Memorial.
The complete chorus and caste, as
well as the full orchestra, that will
stage the Chinese operetta "The Feast
of the Little Lanterns," held its final
dress rehearsal last night at the High
School auditorium. The entertainment
will be give tonight at 8 o'clock.
The production has been coached by
Miss Lucille Douglass and Alvin Har
ness of the high school faculty, and
the entire organization has been
working on the music for the function
for the last six or eight weeks.
The proceeds from the entertain
ment will be devoted to a fund with
which a memorial bust of Don Louis
Lorimier will be purchased to be
placed in the corridor of the high
school building.
The operetta will be given in full
Chines? costumes. Forty-five mem
bers of the chorus made parts of their
own costumes in the domestic science
department of the high school.
of religion was imparted to the orig
inal apostles on Pentecost Sunday by
the appearance of the Holy Ghost, the
speaker declared.
Father Rolwing said that a popular
conception that the Pope at Rome is
infallible and rules the church in all
worldly matters of politics is wrong,
and that the Tope is infallible only
when directing the church, and is
capable of being in error when advis
ing concerning outside matters.
American Ambulance Crops in Mexico and
U. S. Army Chiefs on Duty Along the Border
ft
J "... fv "L-&
i-
"-3 . .....
Ambulance corps No. 3 leaving
-ieL
$i3m -.?Sr -aS3
lr. v. 1. Brunzell. censor; Major Sample, commanding officer; c. H.
Danielson. ordnance officer; Lieut. Allan Gulllon, adjutant of the base.
WEDNESDAY CLUB
HEAD RE-ELECTED
Mrs. J. S. Kochtizky Continues
Administration Other
Officers Named.
Mrs. John S. Kochtitzky, of 909 Col
lege Hill, prominent Capo club woman
and social worker, yesterday afternoon
was unanimously re-elected president
of the Wednesday Club at the annual
meeting and election of officers in the
room of Miss Myrtle Knepper at the
Xormal School.
Simultaneously with the re-election
of Mrs. Kochitizky as thf organiza
tion's head. Mrs. John II. Himmel
berger and her daughter, Miss Kath
ryn Himmelberger, were named dele
gates of the club to the bi-ennial con
vention of the Xational Federation of
Women's Clubs to be held during the
last week of May and the early part
of June at Xew York.
After Mrs. Kochtitzky's election she
presented the club with a new gavel,
which had been turned by her son.
John Kochtitzky.
The other officers of the club also
were re-elected to their former posi
tions, as follows: Mrs. W. W. Martin,
vice-president; Miss Myrtle Knepper.
treasurer; and Miss Mary Tlurrougn,
secretary.
The members of the club also dis
cussed their subjects for the ensuing
year's programs and it was determin
ed that the work of the club will be
directed along the general line of
"Social Problems in Modern Litera
ture." The organization will hold its
annual out-door picnic on one of the
meeting days this spring, probably in
May, and one of the meetings of the
club will be devoted to musical enter
tainment features, at which time Mrs.
R. B. Oliver Jr. and Miss Br-ttie Law
son will be in charge.
Before adjournment at yesterday's
meeting, the club voted an appropria
tion of $50 to the endowment fund of
the Xational Federation of Women's
Clubs. This endowment fund is used
under the direction of officers of the
national women's organization in or
ganizing new women's clubs in various
localities where such societies do not
already exist. It is done under the
extension division of the national
organization.
A large number of the c!ub women
attended the meeting yesterday afternoon.
iMiijuu .uiiiwunuiii luwiiniiniiiifiiiii jiii ' Hi niwiiifiiiWH'i!iiii '" 'J'1" '" "Tli""J ff. .. ""lf
EBM"-'''-:-v-n --""-:i:riii-iiTi '-nifi nrni-v 111 ----'r-Trrrf-hiW-"iiniriirr nonn-jf vnf i i'h tur r i-iTinniiTirt
Columbus, X. M., for the scene of operations in Mexico.
HENRY WILIER DIES
AFTER LONcr ILLNESS
End Came at 3:30 This Morning
to Judge's Son Brother
Died Month Ago.
Henry Wilier, youngest son of
Judge and Mrs. W. II. Wilier, died at
.":'W o'clock this morning at his home
at (iood Hope and Middle streets after
an iiiness lasting for about two years,
lie had been critically ill for the last
live weeks since the death of his
brother, W. F. "Pottie" Wilier.
During the last few days he became
very low and required constant atten
tion by nurses, and a physician visited
his bedside several times a day. His
death had been expected almost
hourly.
Mr. Wilier formerly was the engi
neer at the Cape Brewery & Ice plant
on Middle street, where he was em
ployed for several years. About two
years ago he was forced to stop work
ing on account of his illness and al
though he recovered his strength, he
never was able to do hard work again.
He returned to the brewery for a
time but was forced to give up his J
position last summer. From that time
hence his condition became steadily
worse, and at the time of his brother's
death he was dangerously ill.
Henry Wilier was 28 years old. He
was born in the Cape and lived here
practically all his life. He w-as edu
cated in the Cape schools. He is sur
vived by two brothers in addition to
his mother and father. The brothers
are Fred Wilier, who lives at home,
and Edward Wilier, who is chief clerk
in the Frisco offices at Chaffee.
His mother has been suffering for
the last two weeks from a nervous
breakdown, caused by constant watch
ing and nursing at the bedside of her
son after the death of her older .son.
She has been improving in the last few
days and last night was well enough
to bo up and around the house part
of the time.
MRS. LA PIERRE SUMMONED TO
EAST ST. LOUIS; SISTER ILL
Sends Word Crisis is Reached in Sick
ness of Mrs. William Brothers,
Who Has Been Seriously 111.
Mrs. W. C. LaPierre of Jackson,
who on Tuesday was summoned to
East St. Louis by the serious illness
of her sister, Mrs. William Brothers,
yesterday telegraphed Mrs. John A.
Snider, at Jadrron, raying that the
crisis in Mra. Brothers' illness would
Pluto, Served At
Banquet, Almost
Breaks Up Stag
Error of Chaffee Drug Clerk
in Selecting Mineral Waten
Leads Guests to Fear
"Chaser" Had Been Poisoned.
A diug dork who thought pluto
water would serve for "chasing" pur
poses at a banquet, almost caused a
private stag party to break up in a
riot at Chaffee Saturday evening,
Father Rolwing announced yesterday
upon his arrival ' from that city.
The party was arranged at the
home of one of Father Rolwing's par
ishoners, with only a limited number
of guests invited. Owing to the
murky condition of the city water, the
host decided to furnish his guests with
a pleasant surprise and ordered a case
of mineral water from a drug store.
The liquid was delivered promptly
and placed in the ice box. The host,
whose name Father Rolwing declined
to reveal, had no desire to reflect
upon the clerk's competency, and
therefore did not examine the labels
on the bottles.
As soon as the soup was served, the
waiter emerged from the kitchen with
a tray of glasses filled with crystal
water. The guests licked their chops
in anticipation of the pleasure that
awaited them. Everybody was anx
ious to take the first sip.
The person at the head of the table
permitted his face to fall slightly ajar
as he elevated his glass. There was
a muffled gurgle as the first gulp
rushed past his Adam's apple and
began its downward plunge.
A grave expression engulfed his
features and his lower jaw sagged as
he set his glass down abruptly and
gazed at the host.
"I believe I'm poisoned," he growled,
just as those about the table had pro
ceeded to quench their thirst.
Every glass touched the table simul
taneously and napkins were trans
formed into blotters. Even,- mouth
was obscured and a piteous wail went
forth.
The host, who had consumed about
two drams, was hissing excitedly as
he scrambled for the ice box to ascer
tain whether he had fed himself and
his friends liquid lye or just carbolic
acid.
The guests were still speechless
when he re-entered the room, a broad
smile on his face. "Well, you are not
poisoned, fellows; but" he chirped
"that drug clerk made a mistake
and sent me pluto."
"Great Scott!" exclaimed the guests
in chorus. While they were glad to
learn that they had not been executed,
they were still visibly affected.
be passed Wednesday.
Two days before Mrs. LaPierre was
summoned to East St. Louis, Mrs.
Herman Mueller Jr., another sister of
Mrs. Brothers, was called to the
Brothers home to attend the Brothers
children in the absence of their moth
er, who was removed to a hospital.
None of the messages received from
East St. Louis told what was the
cause of Mrs. Brothers' illness, but the
two sisters, before their departure,
declared they believed it to be appen
dicitis. Mrs. Brothers had a severe attack
of appendicitis before Christmas and
was forced to go to a hospital for
treatment. The sisters believed that
the present illness is a recurrence of
the former malady. Mrs. Brothers
at one time lived io Cape county.
ZEPPELINS AGAIN
RAID ENGLAND; 10
EPORTED KILLED
London War Office Says no Dam
age Done, but Report from Scene
of Attack Asserts 40 Persons
Hit.
GERMANS CLAIM FRESH GAINS
IN CAMPAIGN AGAINST VERDUN
Washington may Withdraw troops
Now in Mexico Chase now is
Believed to be Hopeless Villa
Playing Hide and Seek.
SPECIAL DISPATCH TO THE TRIBUNE
London, April Another Zeppt-Iin raid on the northeastern coast of Eng
land occurred la.st night. The Zeppelins wen- driven oif by the :;nti-air-craft
guns, but not until after more than two scoi" of bombs were dropped.
Ton persons were killed ar.d more than thirty others were injured, ac
cording to information which reached London late tonight, although thr
War Office announced earlier in the evening that no one was killed and no
damage was 'ne.
London, April .". Conflicting reports were received tonight from the
Verdun district. Official statements issued tonight by the War Office in
Paris announced a strong counter olfensive northeast of Verdun, and gain.
for the French in the Caillette wood.
Berlin announced tonight in its official communication that the French
assaults broke down, and that the German army is still in control of the
northern portion of the Caillette wood. The report states further that
the French were repulsed southwest, of Fort Douaumont. and that an efToil
made to recapture the hill at Haumont broke down under the German tire.
London, April .". An exchange telegram from Copenhagen today says
the Swedish steamship Birgir, enroute to Kngland, has been captured ly
a Germant torpedo boat in Cattegat. Lloyd's shipping register lists no
vessel named Cirgir. Two Swedish ships named llirgit are recorded.
S'an Antonio, Tex.. April .". The announcement was made at headquar
ters here today that Villa had eluded all attempts to head him off, and is
now probably well into the Farral region. Whether th column will be
recalled is up to Congress, in the opinion of the army people. They be
lieve that President Wilson will decide to order the American troops back
into home territory when he realizes that Villa cannot be taken dead or
alive.
Special Dispatch to The Tribune.
The Hague, April ". At the open
ing of the second chamber of the
Dutch Parliament yesterday, after a
preliminary secret session in commit
tee, the president of the Chamber rend
a brief statement declaring that the
recent suspension of furloughs of
army office rs and men was a precau
tionary measure, as Holland is firmly
resolved to maintain her neutrality
and there is a possibility of it incur
ring danger of being drawn into the
war.
Th? suspension order, he added, was
not a consequence of the present
political entanglements, but was de
cided upon on account cf certain in
formation which reached the Govern
ment and which the Government does
not judge opportune at the present
moment to make public.
Special Dispatch to The Tribune.
Xamiquipa, Mexico, April " (by
wireless to Columbus, X. M.) A
small remnant of the Villa force that
was defeated by Col. Dodd's cavalry
men at Guerrero eight days ago, was
scattered in a skirmish with Carran
zistas on March 29 in the mountains
near Guerrero, according to reports
reaching here today from Carranzista
sources. No details of the engage
ment could be obtained other than that
the Villa leader, Manuel Baca, was
killed.
What is believed to have been firing
by Villa troops was heard in the
mountains here last Sunday, but after
an investigation, American troops con
cluded that there had been on serious
results, but rather that the firing was
done for deviltry.
Additional reports received today
from Col. Dodd indicate that the Vil
listas losses at Guerrero numbered
only 46, previous reports having
placed them as high as 60.
Special Dispatch to The Tribune.
"San Antonio. Tex.. April .". Th"
Tenth Cavalry, a squadron of which,
according to a r-port from Gen. Persh
ing to Gen. Funston, defeated a group
of Viila forces Saturday north of
Guerrero, is the army's crack negro
troop, famed for exploits during th
Spanish-American War. It partici
pated with the Rough Uider in
! storming San Juan Hill and also
gained distinction for fighting aud
scouting in the Philippines. Some of
its troopers figured with the Seventh
Cavalry in the first fight with Villa's
forces at Guerrero.
Special Dispatch to Th TriSune.
Copenhagen, April .". A German
squadron, emerging from the Baltic,
dashed into the North Sea and en
gaged in a skirmish with a Ilritisu
torpedo boat flotilla off the Norwegian
Coast, according to reports from U"o
separate sources received here today.
A dispatch from Stavenger. Nor
way, to the Politiken, said a Gerrnau
squadron was sighted off that port.
Skippers arrived later with repoi ts
that they had heard gunfire near the
coast.
From Kullon, Sweden, came the
report that heavy cannonading u
heard off the southern end of Nor
way, and that a damaged German
torpedo boat was towed past Helsing
borg a few hours later.
Special Dispatch to The Tribune.
Washington, April .". The War De
partment today authorized the pur
chase of IDS more motor trucks and
two gasoline tanks for th" Mexican
expedition. These will be formed in
to companies of 27 cars each, to main
tain the greatly lengthened lines of
communication with Gen. Pershing.
A dispatch today to the War De
partment from Gen. Funston definite
ly located Col. Dodd and presumably
the Seventh Cavalry on Monday at
Providencia. The dispatch also indi
cated that Gen. Pershing had gone far
south, toward the fighting front pear
Guerrero.
