BARRE DAILY
VOL. XX -NO. 20.
HAIIHK, VERMONT, Fill DAY, AP1UI. 7, 1910.
price, ONE CENT.
rm
HE
NET GAIN MADE
BY GERMANS
AT NEW POINT
Penetrated Trench on First
French Line Between
Bethincourt and Chattan
court West of the Meuse
River, Says French Offi
cial Admission
which look part in the raid Wednesday
night, according to The, Times, received a
vital hit from the anti-aircraft artillery
mill is believed to have gone down at
sea.
20 NEUTRAL SHIPS
SllNK IN TWO WEEKS
And 25 Belligerent Vessels Have Been
Torpedoed The Most of Them
Without Warning.
Washington, I). ('., April 7. Ofliciala
considering the submarine situation to
day had tlm attention particularly en
gaged by the reports of number of neu
tral vessels recently sunk. Unofficial ad
vices say that over 120 neutral ships and
25 belligerent vessel have been torpe
doed within the last two weeks, most of
them without warning.
BUT WERE DRIVEN OUT
OF PART OF POSITION
SWEDEN DEMANDS
SHIP RELEASE
OF GERMANY
The War Office Says Tha
the French at One Poin
Made a Counter-Attack
and Succeeded in Winning
Back Much of the Lost
Ground
Following up sharply their capture of
the village of Haucourt in the Avocourt
Bethincourt salient, northwest of Ver
dun, the Germans have shifted the line
of their attack slightly to the west, dnv
ing against the lines between Bethin
court and Chattancourt.
An interesting situation is developing
on the eastern front, where the Germans
have given signs of initiating an often
sive. Troop movements on the Dvina
front are prevented by the thawing
marshes, but south of the Dvinsk the
Teuton artillery has opened viplent fire
in the vicinity of Vidzy and tr the
Narocz region.
In the Caucasus campaign the Russians
are making continued progress in Turk
ish Armenia.
Petrograd reports the sinking by a
Russian submarine of a Turkish steamer
in the waters near the Bosphorus and the
destruction of 11 coat ships.
The Spanish ambassador at Berlin has
been instructed by his cabinet to ask
from Germany an explanation of the
sinking of the Spanish steamer Vigo and
a definition of the German submarine
policy with regard to the rights of neutrals.
Taris. April 7. The Gormsin forces
have penetrated a French trench of the
lirst line between Bethincourt and Cliat
tancourt, according to the announcement
made to-day by the French war office.
The locality is in the region west of the
Meuse. A French counter-attack at once
drove them back from a large portion of
the positions thus seized.
frogresH through the underground pas
sages and works of the enemy enabled
die French to gain ground southwest of
Fort Doiiaiiinont, according to the French
official statement last night, which says:
"In the Argonne we exploded a mine in
the region of Yauquois.
"West of the Meuse the Germans con
tinued to bombard persistently the Beth
incourt salient and the villages of Esnes
and MontzevinV. '
"Fast of the Meuse, Cote du Poivre
was subjected during the course of the
ilav to a violent bombardment which
foreboded an attack, but our curtain of
fire prevented the enemy from setting
our from his trenches.
"Southwest of Fort Poiiaumont, a se
ries of small hand-to-hanif engagements
enabled our troops to progress in the
underground passages and works of the
enemy on a front of 500 metres to a
depth of more than 200 metres.
"A counter-attack delivered by the en
rniv at the end of the day completely
failed.
"In the Woevre our lotteries concen
trated their fire on various points of the
enemy's front.
"In Lorraine our artillery displayed ac
tivity east of I.uneville between the Ven
ous river and the Vosgos.
"There is no other important event to
report on the rest of the front, except the
usual cannonading."
German Torpedo Boat Seized the Steam
ship Vega and the Swedish Govern
ment at Once Put in a
Protest.
London, April 7. The capture by a
Herman torpedo boat of the Swedish
steamship Vega, from Stockholm for Co
penhagen, is reported in an Kxchange
Telegraph company dispatch from Copen
hagen. The message says that the Swedish-government
has protested against the
capture and demanded the release of the
steamship.
$50,000 SAILS
GAILY AWAY
TO UNKNOWN
United States' New Dirigible
Airship Broke Away from
Her Moorings at Pensa
cola To-day and Went on
a Madcap Chase All Unat
tended
WAS FULLY INFLATED
FOR LONG JOURNEY
GREAT BRITAIN TAKES
SWEDISH SHIPS
Three Vessels Bearing Herring for Ger
many Taken They Carried Cargo
Worth 1,000,000 Crowns.
Copenhagen, via Jxiiiclon, April 7. 1 He
Swedish steamers Ilakan, Hera and Olof,
with herring for Gormtanv, have been
seized bv British warships. Their car
goes are valued at 1,000.000 crowns. It
stated that in the future Swedish
herring ships will sail within territorial
waters.
Naval Aeroplanes Have
Been Prepared to Give
Chase Just as Soon as the
Weather Conditions Will
Permit Fugitive May
Stay Up for. Hours
FRENCH SHIP TORPEDOED.
May Become a Derelict Her Crew Was
Rescued.
London, April 7. Lloyds has an
nounced that tlio French sailing vessel
St. I'ubert has been torpedoed and may
lecoin derelict. Her crew was res
iled.
"WHO IN GERMANY CARES?"
Whether Submarine Sank Sussex and the
Englishman.
Amsterdam, via London. April 7 Com
menting on the American inquiries re
garding the torpedoing of the steamers
Sussex and Englishman, the Hamburger
Nachriehten savs:
'Who on earth cares in Germany wheth-
r these ships were torpedoed by Ger-
man submarines or not. They belonged
to and were used by the enemy and were
iostroved. I hat is all we care about
at the moment."
Peusaeola, Fla., April 7. The new
dirigible airship, which wag recently
brought to the naval aviation station
here for evperiniental use in connection
with naval manoeuvres, broke from her
moorings in the high winds early this
morning and, rising rapidly, was soon
lost to view. There was no one aboard,
but the dirigible was fully inflated and
officials said that nothing would prevent
its remaining aloft for many bom's.
The nirship is said to be worth be
tween $,"0,0lMI and $60,0OO. Preparations
have been made to pursue the escaped
craft with aeroplanes as soon as the
weather conditions permit.
report from Cuehiiiraohie, west of Chi
huahua, two days ago, and hud lie, wan
pursuing what he oharaeieilited as a hut
trail" of the fugitive.
('(done! Brown referred to the skirmish
his force bad April 1 with loll of Villa'
men, in which three Mexicans wert? killed.
There were no American casualties. It
was assumed at headquarters that this
was the same engagement reported by
Major Kvans to General Pershing. Ma
jor Evan sent no details but lieneral
IVrshing added that natives arriving at
his camp hail stated that the Americans
had killed between 30 and 40 of the Villa
men.
17-YEAR TERM
FOR LEIGHTON
50 PEOPLE MURDERED.
By
Mexican Bandits Between Torreon
and Zacatecas.
Laredo, lexas, April . rifty persons,
including women and children, were mur
dered by bandits between Torreon and
Zacateoaon March 28 when the maraud
ers wrecked a passenger train, accord
ing to word brought here yesterday by
passengers.
A military train following the passen
ger reached the wrecked train shortly
afterward but turned back to Torreon
without rendering aid.
No other details were available. The
source is considered authentic here.
VOLUNTEER ARMY
PLAN RETAINED
Senate Vote, 36 to 34, Against Striking
Out That Feature in Preference to
the National Guard Idea.
Sharon Man, Convicted o
Killing AC. Gibson, Was
Sentenced To-day
HIS TWO SONS ARE
YET TO BE TRIED
Jury Was Out a Little Over
an Hour Yesterday
Afternoon
TEN VILLA MEN
WERE WIPED OUT
LESS TENSE IN HOLLAND.
Situation Reported to Be Materially Im
proved.
London, April 7. The situation in Hol
land is apparently becoming less tense.
Neuters Amsterdam correspondent says
an indication of the change is that offi
cers of the military transportation staff
of the state railways will again be grant
ed leave.
In Encounter Between Bandit Gang and
Carranza Troops at Cianeguilla
On April 4.
Washington, D. C. April 4. Another
engagement between Carranza troops
and ilia bandits took place April 4 at
Cianeguilla. Ten bandits were killed. This
information was received by the war
department to-day.
NOT TO LEAVE MEXICO.
Secretary Lansing Flattens Out the Lat
est Rumor.
Washington, 1). C, April 7. Categori
cal denial bv Secretary ljcnsing bite yes
terday was the official answer to persist
ent reports that the American troops
might be withdrawn from Mexico shortly
regardless of developments in the hunt
tor ilia. Both Mr. Ijinsmg and Score
tary Maker of the war department indi
cated there was no present intention of I Maryland, Thomas, Walsh and Williams
Washington, I). C. April 7. The Ken-
ate retained the federal volunteer pro
vision in the army bill late yesterday by
vote ol :iti to 34, rejecting Senator
Lee's amendment to strike the section
from the bill. The vote ended a four-
dav debate on the section.
Advocate of the National Guard, as
the first line of defense behind the regu
lar army supported the amendment vig
orously and the struggle was one of the
hardest fought in the Senate at this ses
sion of Congress,
The narrow margin by which the fed
eral volunteer provision was retained
mtikes it doubtful that it will be in the
measure finally framed by the confer
ence committee between the two houses.
An effort during debate on the House
army bill, to insert this section, which is
designed to provide uch a force as the
continental army proposed by former
Secretary Garrison, was decisively de
feated, t
Without Kepublican support the vol
unteer section would have been voted
out by the Democratic senators despite
the faet that it was unanimously worn
mended bv the military committee
Twenty four Democrats and 10 Republi
cans, including nearlv all the progres
sive Republicans, voted to strike it out.
Nineteen Democrats and 17 Republicans
voted to retain it. The vote follows:
Voting to eliminate the section: Demo
erats Ashhurst, Balheud, Clarke of Ar
kansas, Culberson, (fore J Hardwiok,
Hughes, Kern. Iro of Maryland, Iwi8,
Martin. Overman, Kansdell, Reed. Robin
son, Kha froth, Simmons, Smith of
Georgia, Smith of South Carolina. Stone,
Swanson. Taggart. Thompson and Var
daman 24. Republicans Clapp, Cum
mins, Curtis, Jones. Kenyon, Mi-Cumber,
N'orris. Page, Sherman and Works 10.
Total. :i.
Voting to retain the section -Demo
crats Beckham. Broiissard, Chamberlain,
Hitchcock, llcdlis. Hunting. Johnson of
Maine, Johnson of South Dakota, Lane,
Newlands, O'Gormnn, I'itttuan, Pome
renc. Saulsbury. Shcppnrd, Smith of
Woodstock, April 7. Charles Leightoti
of Sharon to-dav was sentenced in Wind
sor county court to not less than 17 and
not more than 20 years in the state pris
on for manslaughter for killing Albert
C. Gibson at Sharon on f ebruary 21 in a
quarrel over the ownership of logs.
Leighton was found guilty yesterday aft
ernoon. Gibson was shot and beaten dur
ing the frcas. Two of Leighton' sons
are yet to be tried in connection with
the assault.
Arguments were completed .at noon
yesterday, the charm ot Judge W. W
Miles completed and the case given to
the jury at 3:10. George K. Guernsey
of Windsor was foreman of the jury,
winch was out an hour and a quarter.
FREIGHT EMBARGO LIFTED.
MANY BELIEVED LOST
Off
In Sinking of Entente Transport
Coast of Greece.
London, April 7. An Athens dispatch
to the Daily Mail says that a telegram
has been received from Prcveza to the
effect that a large transport belonging to
the entente allies has Iwon sunk off the
west coast of Greece. The telegram add
ed that it was believed that many were
lost.
SPAIN IN MILD INQUIRY
Wants to Know What Germany Means
By Her Acts.
Madrid, via Paris. April 7. The Span
ish cabinet has decided to instruct the
ambassador at Berlin to request from
the German government an explanation
of the sinking of the Spanish steamer
Vigo and a definition of its policy with
regard to the rights of neutrals on the
seas.
- STUDENT SHOT TO DEATH.
Capture of Haucourt Important.
Berlin. April 7. by wireless to Sayville,
X. Y.-'"German newspapers to-day com
ment on the capture of the village of
Haucourt, northwest of Verdun, by Ger
man troops." says the Overseas news
agency. "They point out that the vil
lage w exceedingly well fortified by all
means of modern military art, the place
leing a redoubt with machine guns dis
posed in terraced formation, dominating!
the whole Forges brook valley.
"While Haucourt held out. the Cer- j
mans could not cross Forties brook. For !
this reason the French defended it with
the utmost tenacity.
"The capture of Haucourt is an im
portant step in the systematic rolling up
of the French front. The German losses
v ere insignificant."
Amos Haggett of Bowdoin Had Mirror in
Left Hand.
Bath, Me., April 7. Amos Haggett, 22
years of age, a senior at Bowdoin col
lege, was found on the piazza of a sum
mer cottage at Newmeadows river, West
Bath, last night, with a bullet luile in his
right temple.
A mirror was clasped in his left hand
and a revolver in his right. The police
j believe he commited suicide.
No cause is given for the act.
jgett's father was a prominent
! builder in Bath for many vears.
changing the original orders given (fen
oral runston.
News from the border that a trainload
of supplies, 'Shipped by private firms, had
left Juarez yesterday for Casus Grandes
and Pearson, where they will lie avail
avle to General Pershing, caused satis
faction here. Although the army au
thorities were not the actual shippers, it
wag believed the practical result would
be the same.
Secretary Baker indicated that, in the
present status of the Mexican campaign,
the motor lines from Columbus are to
be the principal artery for supplies, with
whatever use may be gained from the
railways as merely supplementary.
ID. Republican Borah, Brandegee.
Catron, Clark of Wyoming, Dillingham,
Dupont, Gallinger. Lippitt, I.odge, Nel
son. Oliver, Poindevtcr. Snioot, Sterling,
Sutherland, Warren and Weeks 17. To
tal, :ir.
IS ON DANGEROUS LIST.
Steve Cornell Fell Into Vat of Boiling
Water.
St. Johnsbiiry. April 7. Steve Cornell,
a Russian, HO years old, was seriously
scalded yesterday, when lie Jell into a
vat of boiling water. The man was em
ployed bv the K. L. ( handler company of
Interest in political miction alTeclins l,n,-Hn!'- manuiacturers ol piano hoards.
' . . . " l.i L ....... .. .. - . ...1- : .-1.
iiiw sinirn 1'iwiecicn ms icri, . men were
not so badly burned as was his lody.
He is on the dangerous list at lirightlook
hospital.
Causing Some Relief Among Barre Gran
ite Shippers.
A measure of relief in the freight con
gestion that has wrought havoc with the
shipment of Harre granite in the past
fortnight came yesterday through the
announcement, received at the office of
the M. & W. R. railroad, that the New
York, New Haven &, Hartford system
has lifted its embargo on freight through
certain channels. Exceptions to the rule
of a general raising of the embargo that
settled dow n over shipping interests some
weeks ago are made in the case of freight
destined for transportation on the New
York harbor ferry boat system and the
ocean and coastwise ships along the At
uintic seaboard, very little granite
shipped through these mediums and so
the manufacturers here are not mate
rially affected.
The . decision of the New Haven olli
eials, however, serves to open the so
called Harlem river channel, through
which tons of Harre granite are trans
ported annually. It serves also to clear
the way for shipments over the Fenn
sylvania svstem, the Lehigh Valley road
and the New Jersey Central system, lines
that are constantly used bv Barre ship
pers in routing through shipments for
western points. ( learance of routes on
the (fraud Trunk system, together with
the lifting of the embargo over the New
Haven road, combines to simplify a situa
tion that was rapidly assuming serious
proportions m the Barre granite belt
Manufacturers and quarries alike were
beginning to feel the effects of the gener
al embargo.
CAR'S OCCUPANTS '
TOLD OF FATAL RIDE
In Trial of Seth C. Rich Vs. George H.
Cross of North-field.
EXPECT ANOTHER ARREST.
the Mexican situation was renewed bv
receipt at the state department of corre
spondence between Hortt Von Der Goltz,
alleged German spy and aid of Captain
Yon l'apen, former Gernwin military at
tache. It was understood some of the
correspondence submitted by the British
government dealt with activities of Von
Der Golti! in Mexico.
Official attention also was given to the
reported revolution of Felix Diar. in
southern Mexico. Information oCihe de
partment of justice locating Diaz in Mex
ico has been laid liefore the state de
partment. The latter also received un
confirmed rumors that Diaz is obtaining
both men and supplies from Guatemala.
Hag-ship-
LINER SIMLA
IS DESTROYED
Report to London Says Peninsular and
Oriental Cc.'s Ship Was Sunk in
the Mediterranean Sea.
Ixmdnn. April 7. The Daily Mail pub
lishes the report that the Peninsular anJ
Oriental liner Simla has been sunk in
the Mediterranean. It is suggested that
this may be tho transport reported sunk
jn an earlier .dispatch to The MaiL
MONTPELIER
No mention of the Simla his ap-)-red
in the shippins records sine No-
emb-r, and it is presumed she has lcn
nrployed in government service.
Zeppelin Probably Lost.
Ixn h-n. April 7. One of the Z'ppelia
Five Montpolicr bowlers journeyed
last evening to St. Albans, there to de
feat a bowling team on the Dow
linir alleys by a score of 1477 to
l.'t.'lii for the three strings. The five hun
dred mark was twice reached by the
locals. The scre Mimtpelier. Bancroft
324, Armstrong 2t;.1. liradwav ,tn2. Haw
kins 30(1. Manotti 2M. tidal 1477; St.
Allans, Wright 273, Farr 2ti2, Hibbard
21. Paquet 2un. IViwling 2tM.
Mrs. John Burleigh, who has lieen vis
iting friends in the city for the past fe
days, returned this forenoon to her horn;
in Burlington.
Conductor Michael Powers of the Cen
tral Vermont railroad, who has !wrn re
covering from pneumonia at his h-.me in
White Pvivcr Junction, visit, friends in
the city t-dy.
Lyman F. Sumner left Cii n.mn fir
Maneheter. X. H.. for a brief visit wit.'i
Mrs. Sumner.
March M. W n of lUndolrh s a
.(ra i-itr t" day on b"jrl biiin-s.
THREE AMERICANS SLAIN
TALK OF THE TOWN
Together with One Spaniard, By Mexican
Bandits.
James R. McDonald has finished work
at the Holmes hakerv and is now em
ployed nt the City liakery.
E. O. Jones, a former resident of Barre,
who has lieeu making a visit of several
days with relatives in Harre and South
Barre, returned this morning to his home
in indsor.
Daughters of the American Revolution
in Barre are in charge locally of the sale
of little Belgian flags, the proceeds of
which are to go to the relief of war suf
ferers in Belgium. The sale of the flags
is a part of the national D. A. R. cam
paign for a relief fund to be diverted to
the sufferers in Belgium. To-morrow the
Tucson. Ariz.. Auril 7. Three Cnited niemls rs of the society in Barre will lie
States citizens anil one Spaniard were ? f ,IP I'ttlo flags at seven
killed Wednesday bv Mexican Iwndits j ci,nt r"'h- lM'in-' calculated that seven
nine miles south of Kosario, Sinaloa, ents will keep s Belgian in fixxl for one
Mexico, according to advices received j'"1.''- The tag w hich figures in the cam
here vesterdav from Maatlan nt the of-j l,a 'J ' n attractive replica of the na
fice of the Southern Pacific Railroad j t'"""' banner of Belgium, with a picture
of King .Allwrt in the center, and a
mjiiiature I'nited States flag in the low-
In Connection with the Waite-Peck Pois
oning Case.
New York, April 7.- Another arrest
probably will lie made to day in the case
of Arthur Warren Yvaite, who has con
fessed the murder of his father-in-law,
John E. Peck of Grand Rapids, accord
ing to a statement made vesterdav by
District Attorney Swann. Among those
who will be questioned by Mr. Swann
will be Eugene Oliver Kane, the embalin-
er, to whom Waite says he gave SO.OOi)
in the hope of obtaining evidence that
arsenic was used in embalming Mr.
Peck's body.
Mr. Swann made public a letter writ
ten by Waite on March 20 to a brokerage
firm with which he had dealings.
"I want you to do me a favor," the
letter said. ' "I'send a check for .$1.02.5
and a draft for $7.3!t.1. Will you please
pay these to your account and sell suffi
cient stocks say New York Central
to bring this amount up to $lii.ooO and
make out a check for that amount
$1.1.000 to Eugene O. Kane and mail
said check to me immediately?
"You might put this letter away so
no one else can refer to it ami of course
I depend upon you to favor me with t lie
utmost discretion at all times ami to
all questioner."
The letter was written on the day on
which Kane admits receiving from Waite
a ehecK lor m,oii, which ne says, ne
never cashed. ,
Two occupants of the Ohlsmobilo au
tomobile in which Mrs. Seth C. Rich of
Xorthflcld was riding when she was
killed as the result of the car leaving
the highway on the return trip to North
field after an evening spent in Montpol
ier, were the lirst witnesses placed on
the stand in county court this morning
at the opening of the case of Seth C.
Rich, adm., vs. George H. ( ross. rrank
Hutching, also of Northficld, told of pro
posing to Mr. Cross the trip to Montpcl-
ler on the August evening, the start be
ing made around 0 o'clock. Nearlv an
hour wag consumed in making the jour
ney from Northficld, the automobile
traveling slowly all the wav.
The party, which comprised Mr. Cross,
who was driving, .Mrs. rrcd Green, the
witness, and Mrs. Rich, stopped at a
Moiilpelier club anil had a lunch. Ihc
witness said that he and Mr. Cross each
drank, during the meal, two rickeys,
Asked to explain what a rickev con
sisted of, the witness said lime and vichy
were used with "gin to flavor it." It
was an alcoholic drink.
They left the club, the only place vis
ited in Montpelier, about 11:20 o'clock,
Mr. ( ross being at the wheel of the ma
chine; Mrs. lireen sat beside him; di
rectly in back of the driver sat Mr,
Hutching, and Mrs. Rieh wag in the rear
seat on the right side of the car. The
witness testified that Mrs. Rich was not
at any time prior to the accident en
gaging the attention of Mr. Cross.
Asked to describe the accident as it oc
curred, the witness said he knew noth
ing that happened until he picked him
self up in the field. He did not observe
any vehicle approaching and so far as he
observed there were no obstructions in
the road. The highway was smooth, but
very narrow.
The night was dark and very foggy
hen the party started homeward and
little could be seen without a light. On
ross-examiiiation the witness said that
Mr. Cross and none of the other mem
bers of tlio party were under the ifillu-
nce of liquor that evening. The car re-i
maincd right side up and the lights con
tinued to burn, after the car had left
the. road and stopped in the ravine. He
was sure in his own mind that the car
hit a trei- which stood in the field.
Mrs. Bessie W. Green, wife of Fred
Green, followed Mr. Hutchinson and
much of her testimony was corroborative.
She placed the time of leaving North
field somewhat later than Mr. Hutchins,
believing the start was made alxiut 9:30
o'clock. Just before the accident oc
curred she thought she saw lights ahead
and said to Mr. Cross that she believed
an automobile was coming toward them.
Asked to tell of the accident as she
experienced it, Mrs. Green said that she
could recall of nothing that happened un
til she found herself sitting in the car
in the field. Mr. Cross wag lieside of
her. She did not see or hear Mrs. Rich.
When the car left the road she did not
feel any jar, nor did she when the car
stopped. She sat in the car for a mo
ment and then alighted, being followed
by the defendant. She was not injured
and retained consciousness throughout.
The plaintiff is represented by arrc-n
R. Austin of St. Albans, and arrayed
against Attorney Austin are Attorneys
Frank Plumley, J. Ward Carver and
William White for the defense. The
jury empanelled yesterday afternoon fol
lows: William Cooley, Fred Cram, Mar
tin Heliert, Veru Slayton. Bert Nelson,
Fred Darling, T. J. Farrell, Grant Lane,
A. M. Robinson, Carroll Wheeler, B. E.
Sanders and S. A. Nelson.
Mrs. Jones Wins $5,150.
A verdict for the plaintiff, Jennie L.
Jones of Warren, to recover the full
amount of a life insurance policy carried
bv Orvie M. Jones with the Mutual Life
Insurance "company of New York,
amounting with interest to .$.1,150, was
returned by the jury yesterday after
noon in county court.
The case went to the jury shortly be
fore three o'clock after a charge by
lodge Butler which took up over an
hour and in less than fifteen minutes the
wclve men returned with the verdict.
The insurance company claimed that the
eccased at the tune of lsung examined
r insurance misrepresented with inten-
ion to deceive his true physical condi
tion.
QUINCY GETS
5-YEAR BILL;
MEN WON
Agreement Reached by thd
Disputants at Quincy Aft
er Session Before Stato
Board of Conciliation Yes
terday Afternoon
INDUSTRY LE
. SJ,E MARCH 1
'
Lumper tgned Agreement
at JJ -iel, and Some of
Them ' Returned to Work
Yesterday, to Get Ready
for the Stonecutters
Bethel, April 7. The lumpers' atiiee-
ment has been signed and seven of th'i ,
men went to work vesterdav. Prepara-
tions for resuming work by the stone
cutters are now being made rapidly, their
agreement having been signed 10 days
ago. I he granite industry here has been
shut down since March L
Boston, April 7. Representatives o(
the Quincy Granite Manufacturers' as
sociation and the 1400 striking granito
workers met at the ollice ot the state
board of arbitration at the State Houe
yesterday afternoon and settled their
grievances.
The men went out on March 1, the
date on which their five-year agreement
expired. There were conferences follow
ing the strike, and gradually points at
Usue were settled. The workers, who
included cutters, polishers and tool sharp
eners, were awarded .$4 for the eight
hour day, an increase of 2.1 cents, and
several minor demands. A week ag
practically all that remained at the is
sue was the length of the term that tho
new agreement, should run. I he men
demanded a live-year term, and the man
ufacturers a four-year term.
The agreement in Barre, the other im
portant granite center in New. England,
will run out in lf'20, and the Quiiicy
manufacturers wanted their agreement
to expire at the same time. They feared
that their competitors in Barre might
put through a new agreement containing;
some advantage and draw the business
from Quincy.
John F. Scott, president of the Quin
cy board of trade, called the sides to
gether and suggsted that the manufac
turers agree to the five-year term ami
that the union men when seeking an.
agreement in 1021, submit the prevail
ing Barra agreement as a basis. To this
the manufacturers demurred, saying that
the Barre men would have a year of
grace, should any advantage occur.
The meeting at the State House wa.
finally arranged and in that session th-i
manufacturers granted the five-year
agreement. For some time a minority
of the employers were willing to concedo
tins point.
TALK OF THE TOWN
ATTEMPT TO KILL IS CHARGED.
John Gordon, who is attending Dart
mouth college at Hanover, N. II., is pass
ing a part of the spring vacation at his
home on Richardson street.
Miss Caroline Emerson returned this
morning to her home in West Icbanon,
N. H., after spending several days with
relatives in Barre ami Montpelier.
James Dunbar and George Forbes, who
have lieen employed here in the granite
industry for several months, left the city
last evening for New Haven, Conn.,
where they have secured employment at
a munitions plant.
A telegram received here from Privatrt
j William Hurry, who is encamped with
I his regiment near St. Johns, P. Q., states
jthat in- has lieen granted a furlough of
24 hours in which to visit his relatives
tin Barre liefore departing with his regi-
Mr. Hurry is expected
company.
The Americans killed were F. C. Burke,
former railroid agent at Morra lo, Hod-
crick Davidson and a former conductor
named Wallace, according to the railroad
rejiort. The Spaniard was a former con
ductor named Rndrigu.
The party was moving on handcars
from Aeaponetj to Kosalin when they
wore attacked. The bandits, after kill
ing the four and looting their lviggage.
compelled section hands to load the ld- 1
ics on the handcars anil bring them to
Kooalio station.
Special Cnited States .Agent James W.
Keys took charge of the bodies ami Tit
them from Itomli'i to Majatlsn. after i
SOLD JAMAICA GINGER
Bellows Falls Man Paid Fine of $400 and
Oirle Sarirent of Rutland ia Placed On ment tor t ranee
. - : IO HIIIM' ill IOC Cliy lll-HKHIIPH Mlt'IfOMX
" 'and will rejoin his regiment in Montreal
Rutland. April 7. Charged on a grand Sunday. The troops leave in one of the.
jury indictment w ith making an assault ; Canadian overseas contingent early next
ith intent to kill Policemen Thomas (.. week anil will go inime.liatciy to tranco
Klworth and Martin Kennedy of this city Tor servic e in the trenches.
Charles Sargent of this city was placed 1 H is announced that luneral service
trial by jury m Rutland county ; tor William Stephens, the letter cutter
court, vesterdav. i whoso death Wednesday night lolloweU
A few weeks ago the police received j injuries which lie received in the 1 ontral
a complaint that Sargent was making j Vermont freight yard when a freight car
a disturbance in the house where he lived 1 r;" "v,'r '"m- wl" ,M" ,,oM 1Vrr-v'
and Officer Flworth and Kennedy an-i N"naii mortuary chapel on Depot
swered the call. When they opened the -'l"',r Saturday afternoon at 8 o'clock.
door of the Sargent home he n.Pt.sl : Bcv- "crt . I. I.clugh. pastor or the r .rst
Costs. then, ith a leveled Winchester rifle and fl '?" ,"1. f
vn . ., . . , .'averred that he would blow their brains b;v. K. ( ros,h,d who is out .f the city.
.Bellows U -April , -lohn lWtf.' sttemptod to arrest hint. ia : I''"" ,V",,,,'n ""l
40 vears old, p eaded guilt v to tw sn lei . .. i " 4i, :. ,i .. . t i; ,.,, i terv. Mcmliers of the P.arre (.lenugie
, -, . ' ... .was under the nlliience of Iniuor and . , , " .
or left hand corner. Ministers in the
several eitv churches have lieen a-ked to I
encourage the movement in
nions Sunday.
The second annual meeting of the In
tor-City Motorcycle
evening in this eitv
. i: a i. ... i.L....:.r v I -
" l" " "7 7" M.y a Mibterfuee thev succeeded in set
ev ot oumi lndonderrv in municipal - i .
. . , -. i ting in possession of the v capon Is lore
anv harm was done.
wa founded by lovers of motorcycling
in this city and Montpelier last season,
has increa-ed in memlxTship consider
ably sinco it was started and at the
meeting at nii:ht several new name
were put on the roll. It is pl.inned to
make more of tho club this vcar than
ever and a a means of arouinir intotot
court vesterdav afternoon ami was sen
fenced by Judge T. E. O'Brien to not
more than five months nor less than four
their sor- months on eacu cuarge, in inc nouse
(correction.
Harry Hall, whose- gr-c TV store is .-n
lob was held last:ll Terra.? street, pi. a i d ii 1'y to
The club, which ' selling. He paid a fine of JuO and costs.
club arc planning to attend the funeral
m a lvdy. holativc of Mr. Stephens in
l.os Angeles. ( al.. and llav. rstraw, N. V.,
have b.-en notified of his demise.
Trophic to be awarded at the annual
jollification of tho Batre Golf club to
plajrrs who excelled in the '.i't events
i. : I : . 1 :.. .1.. .......... 1 1 I
Wife of Well Known Montpeber Ml h wni(.m. M,(.,it -t l (n
MRS. H. C SHURTLEFF S DEATH.
wiring the American consul at MaatUn. ,,,f' ntomlwrs are plannine to bold a bin
1 he li.pior he sold was 'imaic.t ginger.
The stato claimed it contained !4 per
cent alcohol.
ON A -HOT TRAIL."
put some time in tho near future. The
dVccr who served the club l.lt vcar
were re ri.-cted in their form, r capacities j
To Join National Rifle Association.
At its second meeting in painters" hall
last evening, the recently oiganiol !.inv
Rifle club appropriated tho foo nece-
jsarv to obtain enrollment in the member
a f J
Died Last Evening,
Mrs. Loui-a F. Hammond, wife of Ai
de? man Harry C. Muirtieff of Mont jwlier.
died at Ilea ton hospital in that city at
.V.'lo lt nenmjr following an operation
for a d:see of the liver earlier in tho
l.iav. It is pndhio insl ir.o Mineral w in "oi . , j
... : .l.if ' I .-In.!. .i ir
Ship of tho National Rifle ss,h iitti
I hold at the MiurtlelT r-sidonc on Col
Clothing store on Dcwd square, tlnly
recently tho trophic arrived from 1h
silversmith and a more varied showinir
of award was never male bv tlio golf
dub. An effort to provide a variation
from tho rule if awardog cup finds fs-
urently. with tie recipient. In-
ludcd in the display is tho cup whi. h J.
as follow
I'l
W. H. DutW:
instructed tho secretary to commune-ate
with tho national lm.lv at once. Cuns
, ,. street Sun-lav niton..-! at 2 o. h.k. ' I lw a rd wm-n recenoi ,,,r nt record in
Mrs. vhnrtl. iT Ufn in Turin. X.jtho t4te tournament l.t summer. th
it. 12. I7i. t "ic daughter ot or iw-sc me n in ct win-
in I Harriet ir.-ten Ham M sro: M:. t.la lv t.ale. W illiam
on
;i.!ir
At Least Ttat is What Col. W. C En. a ! i. o president . B. W. i';.;feHo : , ro- " tn ' distributed to tho member f
1 ..... 1 .. I . . U . .... (
i cum I. "o marne.i in ,ir. MiiirTit-rt
m J.ilv 2i''. 1 Bcsi b- !er hu-bml
. . c a ball -uster, Mrs. 1 inr
Thinks.
San Ant ni. T. i April 7. - A report
from Col. W. C. Brown of tho ojj cav
alry. rorif l lat n'ght. ii;di ited that
John It. Inland r tiimsd lt ovonin? he. at least, bo-i'ved Fran-1-" A ill la I
;-ry. F. H. l'-artl.tt: treisttror, W illiam
Riv.at. The club s)s.- voted to renew
It ieir ar'.'ntion with t'io Fe..ration of
j American Motorist.
Jtho llsrro club in tlio near future and lurin. and an aunt bv n.sr-
Ko-trr of 1 vtr.-it. Mr.
lo! titn. Mr. W . V M.it'y .n. Geore'
Fraer, James I re, 'an I. Andrew W".
Fr.Hl.nl. All M. Aver;'! and H. G.
W.-slrufT.
(.-to-fte
ct n. hero bo mad.-
a li.
brief !f?ed from tho di-lrut a boot
a mkir bia way soutti.
oicrrer.j and
lie tH.nl l is
A. A la 'v acl S. n..!!,.ter k-
on I. ft vr-t t lay
in MotitreL
with tho announcement that tto initia- risk'"- Mrs. v..
tion feo is 1. it is eiss. te,l that t"'o j Short!. rT was i
member w ill in. roaso materially. At , hur. h in Moot ;
present 2" person have oni'dlcl mnu !faotto rhj tr. I;iug! to t.f t
. ther are cand. date for tho r'uh. 1 ho .-an IVaol it .-n. i I id ibo l
men.her of IW-tr-anyj C.'erka notice.
r. of Mr iuis ,! Iji j Tl oro i!l l a i n'o' mf I m; at
.V.'"r! iWorCfTi ri I Fre.ay at p.
fliV.Vrs r-.ii -1 bo i-res.-rt
n l r.
rti. A I
-t r r
for a tow dats .:t r""t ineof.ng i ni!j-t to tti- cal ! in .! -U" ' or iH a- . tue m a i t o-o ! r. : 1- i,l
the jrosideot. t animate tk o.rotary.
-t ! j.TTitc !. For orir
