WFATinnr
FRIPA* MU Ml(l1 4,,AM,lf ,S
irMi'i'RMiKK NODBSATI
l\ill Krport ?.n I'Hic II.
^^^^^ Fi rst tn Lt
(Mtrone
CIRCULATIOX
Drer 100,000 Daily
Bet Paid, Non-^Aliirnahk
First to Last?the Truth: News - Editorials ? Advertisements
yt? LXXVI N??. 25,498.
[CnpjrrltM 1?l*?
I hc Trlbunr \?? n |
THl'HSDAY, SEPTEMBEH 7. 1!H<;.
n?-p /,i,vrP ?" >"* **rk '"'? >,wark
SUB WA Y AND "L" STRIKE ON,
u
GREEN CAR" MEN WALK OUT
FRENCH REACH
CHAULNES, CUT
ROYE RAILWAY
Smash Saiient South
of Somme in Fierce
Drive.
560,000 ALLIED
TROOPS ENGAGED
Flank Attacks Bring Gains
at the Lowest
Cost.
1. Bdoo, Scpt. 6<?Foeh, shiftinp
fcjj attack apain to-day from the
north to the MUtll of the Somme,
iwehed the onttkirti of Chaulnes.
the rr.ain suppert of the Orman line
in the MCttC flWB Peronne to Roye.
The Krer.ch ftbo threw forces across
the railway from <'haulnes to Roye,
thus cuttinjr or,e of the two roads
Vkkh lappiy tJ"p 9*7* pa'.ient.
?fr,- ri made after heavy
tcotcr ftttackl had been beaten back.
AwiHnff the Tentm Hnc on a front
of M than twehe miles. Foch's
troops carried the preater part of the
p of Yerr.y-or.-Santerre, north
Mrt of Chaulnes. and the northern
rart of Verrr.ar.dovillers. lytng to the
?*wesL
Qiaulnes is threatened from two
d:rertior.s. Th* thrust directly east
wrd ha? not yet been turned and
apture of the po?itions to the
n*rth to-day mniffl this important
I hfl with a flankinf movement. A
. !arj* part of Um ?a:;ent from Chau!
nei to Peronne has now been elimi
nated.
Briti?h Dri?e Nearer Cnmbles.
. The Br;t:.-h rpeanwhile have en
d?.nger?"i Um i^rman prip on Com
bies. Raraning the attack last
r.rht. H?.z'- troopi raptured the
Leuze wood, leu than a mile north
west '. CombW Thil f*in, in addi
? - - -??- nchy, which lies well
we?t cf Um Mich line, and
kiva Um Gtrmi fa mative of
.? r I -"ndering.
Or. ? | of the Somme the
IWN -> Berlin reports
"??? "? < -. *ror,pg ?re attacking
haPiMriy ?? - .?-, of tk? Smmm
?--? 1- "0 French eoic ?rs are
?mH. Takti t MBjVBCtiM with
??? -'. ,*- % itaUmrat that the ar
t:>ry f:? -r ?-? a": few <davi ex
? ? ?? ? ? - ng known
MNl ??->? timil 'f "?? i hin'
???? ?-, i iraai * plan ? ?rH?di?w?l
;? - ?-? ? | .... -
**? ?'?-?? \ ? ? : th? French jtrokes
kiJtro^'*-! ??? greatett admiration in
Len-i-- :* hardly have
t?>d f .*'- ? . tfOTC ar.other is
>\.- r rours after
T.eated eounter
N*?i MHtb of the Somme, U^t nifht
>? ? .,? % r.^w offen
??'? ?r> ? ? . - - ? ? | : won
rtaat Eaini
Allin' (,ain?i < r>?tinj F.ittlr.
? rtferti *,?????? that ?? A'.lifl
I ' ? ? than w??
.ii xmoth'
." ?
OW fX
'nry of
? n ? n H
1 "? ?? ?.. . resul'-.
'? ? <
??** ? heavy a
? ? : j n.
? h'
By
" ?
rtael nf
?l ',? Caaali ? ? ??
9t '?-.}?? > . ? . | ,,',.
.... - | .
Ur '' "'
,.
The
?,.' ?'.? "
**t% Officiai Reporti
(>n Somme Offensivc
| ?*
? :?y t?y
^?^?M *a
?-??? t. <<.)-/..* a
STRIKE PUTS END TO
MITCHELS AUTO TRIP
Followlng the disbandment of his
training regiment at Plattshurg
yesterday, Mayor Mitchel Marted at
ome for New York by automobile.
arrompanicd by hi* wife, who has
been Ma>ing at the Hotel ( hani
plain. Before leaving he said:
"From all the information 1 now
have of the strike situation in New
York I do not ?ee that my taking
until Frlday morning to rearh the
t ity Hall is going to work injury
anywhere. I made the arrange
ments to motor home with Mrs.
Mitchel ten days ago, when it looked
as though it would be the only way
of getting there. and, although the
Rtrike among the big roads i? off, I
fail to see why I cannot tinish ni>
trip as intended.
"Of rourse, if 1 went down on the
6 o'rlork Special I would be on the
job to-morrow morning. but my in
formation i* that Friday morning
will do just as well."
Theodore Rousseau, Ma>or Mitch
el'a secretary, said last night he had
the Mayor on the telephone at mid
night. Mr. Mitchell then was at St.
John's Fcrry. Yermont, and said he
expected to go to WlWIli N? H.,
where he would spcnd the night and
would ratrh the first train for New
York this morning. This would put
him back in the rity late this after
noon.
DIPLOWAT GAGS
WILSON CRITICS
Robert Bliss, Charge in
Paris, Holds Up Writer's
Credentials.
Hv KRKD B. PITNKY.
Psris, Sept. 6\ Robert Woods B!i>5,
first secretarv of the American Em
bassy and charge d'affaires in the ab
srnce of Ambassador Sharp, has just at
tempted to estab'.ish a censorship over
Amencans far exceeding in rigor any
thing the Krench havr ever done, even
for military purpo<e,. Mr. Rliss's rul
ing is that no American who critieises
President Wilson shall receive assist
anre in his affairs from the American
F.mbassy in Paris. To get the hrlp of
tl e MnbMBJT ?n< mu?t Brit endow Mr.
Wilson with the highest attribu'e?
fharles F.dward Russe'.l. two years
ago the Socia'nst eandidate for Fenator
from N'ew York, now representing in
Paris a we!l-known and important
new?paper organization. is Mr. Bliss's
mrnt recert victim. He j-uffers for
havmg written to the Paris edition of
"The Herald" 'hat It pleased him to
see that many Americans had protested
against Mr. Wilaon'l "???. strange and
grotrsnue felicitations to the Austnan
Lmperor."
Af'er writing this letter Mr. Russel!
wishrd to go to the Relgan front, and,
?eecrdiac to the rule laid down by the
Helgian government, asked the em
bassv in Paris for a letter eatebliahing
hiF identity as a journalist. takmg
t? Mr. Bliai his rredent:als Irorr.
? he organiMtiOB employir.g h,m. An
other journaHat went with Mr. Raaael]
on the <?me errar.d, and bottl were told
to come back the next day and get
their letter*. M?t day the other man,
who had not wrnten U "The Herald,
received his letter. but Mr Rus<-ell was
re'userj r.?, on the grnund that he had
ICd the President. Mr. Russell
Uked ll there was Btiything In 'he
? ? i r tNC lUtate fnrbidding
m of the President. Mr Bliss
replied ' No," but said that nothtBg m
? he Conttitution oi the tUtutei re
n ;.red him to give the >fer Blkcd for,
that no one who entlCJMw the
- ?. n eould z<' mythsng from the
^ft?rw.rd Mr. BlUl wrote a
}. '-er to Russell, naying:
I JTOUI call this morn?
ing' wher. vu reojnctUd 'he good of
f|(H of the emhi,.-;,' t? facillUU TOUr
obUininx privlltt*! trom th? B?lg??n
? "1 to newtpapei
eomspc idcnU, f?? rommurncati..ti to
tre p?rii editioi oi 'Th? Herald' over
,!T:e htl been broaght U my at
, of jrouf trit ci
? ?1 the Prcaidont, I do not fe.-l
? ed m giving jrou ? l?tt?r <t eom
.,. ... Belrian l?B?tion
. etter of eredei I ' ra*?tn
The letter was on 'he official station
ery of 'he ernha nf, and '<?i signer]
"Bobt w Bliaa, Chargd d'Affairw.
2 AVIATORS FALL 500 FEET.
Mritiah \rm\ Offirer and Mar%ard Stu
dent llurt at Buffalo S< hool.
I ifi ... , [,? ?. Majoi w ( < amp
heii, u Bi ' '? ofBe< r, and Tha?doM Da
I raepert, '? v . ? H?nr?rd
. nt, were MfiOUBly '"'
. ',/ the fall of ari aeroplnne to di.y
.,? ?. , i irt avtatlon ieha?>l on tha
Nlagara falli Baolavaxd, rie?r tlie
tiuffaio ' ity liM Tha maahlna fail]
-,'?
Tha InJnrad man *ere takan to Bria
County Haapital. MaJai CampbalPal
fraetarad i ari rlb ??< >? brokan.
\>- Kr . ' arloualj jurad
l>r K ? ? ? ng ?
engina I i a i d
i Majoi ' amphall trjrlng to (l* it ?n|
*?? tarnad back t*wsrd tha bangaf ]
iddenly, arhan *e were ?t ? hei(fi,> ofl
ahout IM !??'. M dtppad MM down,
a/jd traihed to 'he gn
STRAUSORDERS
INQUIRY; BOTH
SIDES CALLED
Shonts, Hedley and
Union Leaders
Subpoenaed.
P.S.C. HASPOWER
TOPROBESTRIKE
Chairman Sets 11 o'Clock
To-day for Investi
gation.
As ?oon as the strike on the Inter
boroujjh and the New Yorh Railwajri
I'ompany uas drdared. the Publie Ser
\:cr CommiSfiotl took ptep; to mret thr
emerpency thu? thrust upon it. Chair?
man Oscar S. Straui ordered an inveati
jcation, which will bepn thil morning.
He ij=sucd subpcrnas not only for Thr
odore P. Shontl and KranV. Hedley,
preFident and vice-prciden t of the
eonspaniei eoncerned, hut for Wiliiam
*D. Fitagerald and William B. < onway,
repreaenting the men. Thi* itatement
wsi issued ihortly after midnight
from the oflleea of the commiaaion in
1U0 Broadway:
"The Pablic Srnir? ( ommi.-sion. un
der the power? ronferred upon it bv
the PupIic Servire Commifiions law(
will begin an mvestigation of the
?trike upon the Interhoroutrh !ines at
Broadwav, ?>t 11 o'clock to-day. The
conimission possesses the ritrht to in
veatigate eonditiona of service ren
dered upon the railroads and itrtet
railroad^ nnder iti iuriadietion."
The chairman of the Publie Serv.ee
the oftices of the eotnmiaaion, 120
? 'ommifsion took thi* action only after
an ali day dehberation on the situa
tion and a long eonference with hu
fellow maraberi of the bodjr.
Travii H. Whitney, lecretary of tha
cnmmijsion, told Mr. Straui that the
eity had an intereal in the workingeon
tracts of the min and thiit the eom
Tii^Kion wai woll within it* righ( ni
undertaking an inveatigation.
Mr. Straua, who played a nrominent
rnr' in lettling tha itrike of ?he em
rloyes oi the New York Railwayi and
Third Avenie eompaniel earlv il \ .
trust. remained in eiose touch with the
eituation ;.:1 ???'?'< rnoon and evenintr. do
:ng hix Utmoat to prevent a -tnke.
Jnme? B. Wnlker, lecretary of the eonv
mission, remained ai the office until
afto* midnight getting out thr iub
pcanaa ealling for the attendanre of the
railway and union offlciali
DAVISON PLANE IN
1,000-FOOT PROP
Engine Fails and Flyer Volpiancs
to River.
Krederrk T Dariaon, whn^e mn>h?r,
Mrs. H. P. Pavison, ?tarted an aviation
gehool to demons'ra'e to other moth
ers what a nafe *port flying Waa, rame
near being killed yeMerday when the
engine of the Curtiai flying boat, in
whieh he was aoaring ovrr thr Eaat
Kiver. at Twenty-third Street, went
dead.
With voung Dnvi-on in the hydro
aeroplane wa<= Robert A Lovett, ^on of
Judge R. S. Lovett, head of the I nion
Pantir Railway ijratam, When 'he en?
gine itopped the eroft paused mddenly
then ^hot down toward the river
at ternfie jipeed.
Doviaon longht hard to regam eon
trol Of 'he maehine. and had r'nreked
iti dowoward rouraa eonaiderably by
the tima il hit the water. Fmim flew
in all directioni arhan tha flymc boat
strurk. bu( '' w?- no) damaged Iti "<?
i uiar;'1 eacapad injory. Tha two young
men were m-.re than onc fhooaand feel
in th<- air when the anginc failed. Had
they been Ilying lowar they
?carealf have miaaed daath( for it was
? <? long drop 'hat Daviaon ir*M ahle
tO rcrr.ver contro] of hil eraft. The
erew of Gaorga P. Bakar'a yacht, the
. - ng, towed tha flying boat to a iand
Ing
. ? ?
BERLIN TAGESZEITUNG'
AGAIN PROHIBITED
Count Rovcntlow Must Submit
WritinKs to ^:cnsor.
Barlin, Sept 8. The "Da?1 tha
Tagoasaitang" announced 'o its read
. m to day that i( had o-.re more botB
prohfbiU d
The "Tageaaeltung" aajri ',i- naval
?xpert. Coon( Ern I ?on Raventlow,
baa baon forbiddan ta pabliah anj
for the duration ol tha waf
without aubmitting ii to 'he eenaoi
and baing providad arith an inprinM'
tur.
Th/- nawapaper ad<lx thm thii la
oquivalanl to lilencing < aonl ?on R?
vtntlow, arho, indar ineh eonditiona,
would nava to aapreai not hii awa
-??
i^hiid Bleepwtiker Killed.
Katharini Donagnn, alavan paan old
,,, .,n i. ,ri.M, \ i n le, vhila walking in
i,, | , i,, .. . . ? tarday moi nina
,-. ppod I row ?? ? Indow in hai !?? droom
i,, ,| fel| foui itorii to l" i d< atl
? ?.,,,, ,,f an ?" awai Har mother,
Mr? Maiv Donagan, oiaeovarad tha
l,..dy wlim, not flnding ?he ehild in
t.ed ?ht looked out vt Ul wiudo*.
SERVICE, NORMAL AT FIRST, THEN LAGS;
5,000 POLICE READY FOR GUARD DUTY
Surface Lines Crippled;
Subway and "L" Irregular
These were the conditions on the citv's transportation
lines early this morning:
Surface lines on Madison, Eighth. Seventh. Sixth and
LexiUfton avenues were clear of cars.
All the preen car crosstown lines in the cit\ were tied up.
Few cars were runninp on Rroadway.
The subway was beginninp to fail behind schedule.
Northbound traina atill ran fairly regularly. Southbound
traffie was late.
Strike-breakera were replacing the regular men on the
undergTOUnd line. On some trains only the motorman was
a regular employe of the company.
Trains on the Third and Second Avenue Elevated were
running as expresaea only. atopping ftrst at Fifty-ninth Streel
and then at 106th.
Strikera had raided aeveral ticket officea on the elevated
lines and cauaed much diaturbance before diapersed by the
polico.
On the Sixth and Ninth Avenue L lines trains were run?
ning t'ar behind schedule.
Strike a Surprise to Men;
Many Doubt Its Success
Several Subway Guards Say Only One-Fourth Will Quit
?All Expected to Stay at Work Until 2?
Situation Is Tense.
The atrika derlaration a1 9i? a'eloeh
Kh< was a< big a lurprtaa to the
lubway trammrn M anybody All
???'.: thaii |oha were good until '.'
. . thil morning, and several ex
1 ,;? ?pi?i?? ??< hopefully,
too that a wav would be found out
of the dilemma and there would be no
itrika.
A Tnbur.e repnrter informed a ga'e
man the stnke had been called a few
minutes after the action was taken.
"I don't believe It," he said. "Every- '
thing will he al! right until '.'."
The reporter inaiatad his information
wai lorrect.
"Well, let Vm stnke," rephed the
gateman. 'T stick on the job. I don't
belong to rhe union. I didn't join be
cause I don't think they have a chance
I to win this fight "
This belief found corroboration in
j the statements of several subway
'. guards. who were approached between
10 and 11 p. m. None had been in
, formed the .stnke ?a, called, and with
only f?W exceptions guards told in
qairing pa'-enc^rs there would be train
terviee all night.
"There are 9,000 strikebreakers nt
?he various barns all ready to take
rharge of the trains and resume the
a* soon as the union men walk
| out," said one guani. "Thil strike isn't
I going to amount to much. Not over
' one-fourth of the men will go out."
Ari a:r of expectanry and uncrrtainty
penraded the ranks of the workers all
aftemoon and became more mtense as
the evening wore on. There were fre
quent cor,ferenre< between nubway
guards. who during tha runs between
expraai stations often would gather in
onc ear and grt their head fogether.
It was evidrnt there were disagree
men's anionj; the men.
Meantimi muahroom ntney magnates
rjiught tha spint, and l>\ lamplight
trucki were haatily toi.vertad into om
nibuaaa. Dawn proraiaes to wltaaaa
?'.,!- of thaaa wairdly eoavtrtad con- I
vcyancei cruiaing tna iptown streets .
v. ith drivers barkinc- in\ itations to take
peopla downtown. A MOra of make
vh'ft 'bu'-es were p.irked along Lenox ;
:?? at midnigh*.
Reporti of thaaa forboding attmtlaa,
carried int.i the lllbway tubes, in
"i; amaag the work- .
nr- there
? !!ot th'- ll mv Is-' U?p," one guard .
ron idad to another at the Brooklyn
I'.ndge -tation at 10:11
"What'l the idea"" rhidrd the other.
A pasaaBgar approachad the first
guard a moment laU r.
"How latt Will trains be running.
hc asked.
"All ingh\" said the guard.
"But I unders'ood thil ertw wai go
iig off when it reached the bam."
"Mavbe ?? will," said the guard.
Another guard was more out>poken.
if you wan' to gct uptown after 2
o'rloek vou'll have to walk or hire a
jitney.""he said. "If there are any
traifli running 111 miaa my guaaa."
"But 'he ?trikebreakers ?"
"Stiikabrcakara My ayt" the guard
exrlaimed scornfully.
The mquirer ualked into the next
car and questioned 'he guard there as
to the likehhood of waFking after 2.
"There will be trains all night," he
snid. "Nine thous'ind mer. ifl tha barfll
ready to go to work as fast as they
quit."
And so it went.
"You ran take it from me. said a
subway platform man whose hair has
graved ifl the semre. "that I am not
gomg to stnke. I went on one s'nke
and go' the worst of it. I'm going ta
|?t well enough alone and stay right
on the old job."
When s'rikebreakers began 'o don
their spic and span white ur.iforms :n
!he bam? more guards voiced their
loyalty. , ,,
"Few will go out. said another Olfl
Mmer "The ,-trike fever which laised
? lot of the voung blood> twa weak
ago has died out. Most of the men are
satistied With 'he agreement made three
weeks ago.
"A trainman ran make a fair Iiving
now. He works nine hours and can gat
in all the overtime he wants. either on
runs or platform work. With my over?
time I make around *-M a w?ek, and I
think that's fair. These organizers
have got around some of the onys,
though. and thev have agreed to strikr
wi'hout knowing what they are doing.
I have my contract with tha eompany
and am going to stick to it."
__--??
L0ND0N HEARS BREMEN
WILL LAND IN 10 DAYS
Octs Report Submarine Liner
Will Dock at New l.ondon.
I.ondon. Sept. ?. It li reported here
that the Oerman submarine merehant
man fUemen may be expecte- to doek
at an American por- wl Ml '' "???? ?
probablv at New LoadOB, <
Over $500,000,000 Monthly!
THil Itaggerinf IfflOVnl II <ierman\'<. monthlv wai' "P*"*'
iCCoi nl rha ?i> sh<- ii toiving the tremendoas financial protJ
lems Incurred is the lubjecl at ifa altogether Importanl ind un
usuall) Interestini irticlei on "German War Finance, now ar
pearing In rb? Trlbune, b) Professoi Morita r. Bonn.
Dr Bonn is presidtni of the Coanmcrcial UnHr?r*ii) '" u!
, ,,.. ol Wonlch, and II an economist of internationalfame H?
writes froill a firtl hand knowkdM in a clear. tbOHMgt and cm
prehenahrc manner that you will ipprtciat*.
Dl Bonn'l MCOIMl article. "Permanent Loani and 5topi?P
,,??" || on Garel Garrett'i Bntintsi Kin'i F.nanc.al PaRe
Pli
lo .11 ? Read II
1k
JULQaa..
She Sribune
Fira* fo f-oaf??*?? Trvth:
ftmm- -EJitoriaU?AdtMrtismmmnU.
auLm.
Crews Quit as Runs End?I. R.T. Uses 3,000
Strikebreakers?Mob Invades Grand
Central Platforms.
The big traction strike is on.
Since 9:29 o'clock last night, when 2,500 organized Interborough em
ployes assembled in mass meeting, heard the report of their committee
and answered with a roar of "Strike! Strike! Strike!" the union crews of
subway trains, elevated trains and surface line green cars have been walk
ing out as their runs ended.
If the strikers prove to have the strength they claim, the only lines
giving anything aoproaching normal service this morning to Manhattan s
millions of residents will be those of the Second and Third Avenue Rail
road Campanies and several smaller lines?and these undoubtedly will be
disorganized by the tremendous amount of traffic diverted to them.
As confident of their strength as the strike leaders, officials of the
Interborough and of the subsidiary New York Railways Company an
nounced after the strike votes had been taken that only lack of adequate
police protection would prevent them from operating trains and surface
cars on schedule.
Six hundred men, some in civilians' clothes and some still wearing the uniform of
the Interborough, but all displaying the button of the carmen's union, marched into the
Grand Central subway station shortly before midnight last night. Some of the ttcket
choppers and platform guards departed from their posts willingiy, some listened to the
?.rguments shouted by the gathering and then retired, others were picked up by force
and hustled out. But they all went.
Ten minutes after the invasion, one lone ticket seller was the only subway em
ploye on duty. He had argued with the strikers that it was his duty to remain and take
-are of the Interborough's money, and they had allowed him to stay. He continued to
sell tickets which passengers dropped into unattended boxes.
STRIKERS INVADE TRAINS.
Having cleared the station, the strikers boarded trains by twos and threes to
urge their arguments on the train crews.
Another case of violence reported to James L. Quackenbush, attomey for the
Interborough, at the strike headquarters, was an attack upon the station agent on the Third
Avenue "L" at Thirty-fourth Street. A strike committee burst into the station and
chased him from the office.
I. R. T. READY,
SHONTS SAYS
3,000 Strikebreakers
Sent to System's 8
Terminals.
Theodore P Shonta announeed at the
Interhorough'? itfika heado,uarter? in
the Ho'el Belmont laat night that S.nOO
itrikebreakers were being dutrtbuted
rapidly throughnut the elevated and
gubway terntinal* of the system. These
rv.en havf been held in readine?s at the
\arious barr.> and serr*t gathering
plare< daaignatad by the rompany.
"They are ROt to he MOd on the
?treet railwaya," aaid Mr. Shonta. "We
nhall employ them for the pre?ent only
on the .devated and ?ubway lines. I
can't tell r.ow how they will be dis
tributed.
Men <.o ?o Nine Terminal*.
? rhay will be stationed at the various
\antage pointi in iueh naaabara a* ???
:;nd we ,hall need them. We ihoil
ueed flnt of all to try out the ayatam
under Btrika eonditiona, and then will
be able to tell just where the most men
will be needed."
The n-.en were xent to the follow.ng
terminals to he on hand to handle the
erowdl thll morning.
KI.KVATKI)
Utth Street and Th'.rd Avenue.
IMth Street. The Bronx.
South Ferry
City Haii.
BUBWAT.
Sgfd Stree: and Van ( ortlar.dt I'ark.
180th Street and Wa?t Farms.
Atlantie Avenue and Flatbush Ave
nue, Brooklyn.
gooth Ferry.
141th Street and I.er.nx Avenue, l na
Bronx. ,
When aakad if he intended to rematn
,,. the eity Mr. Shonta aodarad that he
filt it hi? dutv to do so.
I.lnea 100 Per Cent Ready.
"A* exeeut'.ve of a eompany whifh
C?atiaua4 oa j?m* X. columa M
Charged with disorderly conduct for attempting to intimidate
the ticket agent and chopper on the Sixty-fifth Street atation of the |
Second Avenue "L" two men who said they are Israel Simpson, 1
of 66 East 107th Street, and Robert Ryan, of 457 Eaat
138th Street, were held in $300 baU by Magistrate Deuel in the
Men's Night Court last night
The men were arrested by Patrolman Bannon, who said he
found them with a number of othera acting in a disorderly manner
on the elevated stairs.
It was in Lyceum Hall, at Third Avenue and Eighty-sixth
Street, that the Interborough men held the wild meeting which
started the strike with a vocal crash that could be heard more than
a mile away. The shouting carried to the ears of a couple of
thousand motormen and conductors of green car lines at another
meeting in Plaza Hall, Third Avenue and Fifty-ninth Street, and
gave them the news for which they had been waiting.
STRIKE STARTS GREEN CAR STRIKE.
These were the men who, a month ago, won recognition of
their new union by a three-day strike and who had declared them
selves in readiness to strike again in sympathy with their brother
workers of subways and elevateds.
"Strike! Strike! Strike!" they echoed the roar from the
north. But that was unofficial. It was not until an hour later that
the leaders arrived from the Lyceum meeting and got the same
response to a request for a formal vote.
The striking green car men will get little sympathy from
Oscar S. Straus, chairman of the Public Service Commission,
through whose good offices, in conjunction with those of Mayor
Mitchel, last month's strike on the surface lines wa* settled to the
union's advantage.
"I am unwilling to assume that either party will break its
solemn obligation," he said last night. "Either side would forfeit
the good will of the public by casting the agreement overboard;
and if the green car men strike without seeking arbitration, as they
are promised, that is what they are doing."
Immediately the strike votea had been taken a swarm of run
ners sped for car barns and terminals that could not be reached by
telephone to call out the thousands of traction workers who have
thrown in their lot with the thua far victorious union.
POLtCE PREPARE FOR TROUBLE.
Service up to midnight continued normaL f The men quit
