1
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Probable showers to-day and to-morrow;
little change in temperature.
Highest temperature yesterday, 78; lowest, 64.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 10.
IT SHINES FOB ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 7.
4
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the fun Printing and Publishing Atioctation.
ONE CENT
In Greater New York.
Jfr.fr City ami Newark.
KUrnlici
TWO t'KNT.
Sstm.
ALLIES SWEEP
ON; NOW MILE
FROM COMBLES
3Iakc Fresh Gains on Both
Sides of Sommc in Third
Day of Attack.
GERMANS HEMMED IN
BY TWO BIO AN MIES
French Tush First Line
Trendies Up to Outskirts
of Chaulncs.
GET 3I0ST OF BERNY;
IN VERMANDOVILLEKS
British Clear Lcnzc Wood
in All Night Fight Soon
' to Hold Albert Ridge.
Paws, Sept. . On both sides of the
River Somme the Frcnch-and British
went forward stilt further to-day, tho
third day of their successful new at
uck. The French sained Important
positions south of the river and to the
north of It the British advance put the
uerman uercnacrs or combles in a
tlriit place. Combles Is now' threat
enrd from north and south.
The Trench sains south of the
Somme were mado after the Germans
there by repeated counter attacks hud
tried to reconquer the ground they lost
yesterday. After beating back these
fttmpt t!ii Krone)) t"nk the offen
lve and In very hot fighting drove the
Germans still further back.
At the southern end of the Somme
line the French pushed their first lino
trenches up to the outskirts of the
town of Chaulnes. They reached the
railway running south from Chaulnes
to Koye. which the Germans have used
at the main connection for thrlr posi
tions on the salient of their line from
Chaulnes to J.asgny. Thin siroke
illl seriously cripple the German de
Jtnce organization for twenty miles of
the front.
Take More tier wan Trenches,
Bflween Chaulnes and Chilly, which
the 1 rench took yesterday, they captured
more German trenches and took many
prisoners, the number of which had not
)tt b'en announced.
Some of the heaviest fighting of tho
isy rased In the little villages of Herny
n.l VcrrnamlovUlera, but resulted favor-
iibly for tho French. They sallied a foot
lold In both villages on Monday, and to
.lay they mado It more than a foothold.
Most of nerny Is now In Frefcch hands,
and the northern part of Vermandovlllers
far an the road that runs northeast to
ltrees.
In these villages, as elsewhere on the
front, the Germans had turned brick and
mortar ruins into trenches und small
torts, and had tunnelled under them,
lit, ery where they had machine guns.
The Trench positions In the outskirts
ere hastily made, those of the Germans
Immanent as permanent as artillery
would let them be. French infantry took
them with the bayonet, however, and
eld them to-night.
Clearing Tangle of Lease Wood.
East of Iterny also the Germans were
unible to hold their trenches ugalnst
French attacks and were driven out of
a triangular shaped section. This action,
almost directly east of Belloy-cn-San-"rr,
reaches out toward the hamlet of
Mllers-Carbonnel, at the junction of five
loads and near the Somme and Its rail
way, now in German hands at this point.
The fighting still goes on about Com
hies village and Glnchy, where the Brit
lli also have pushed forward. All night
'he Hrltlsh struggled on through the
tangle of the Leuze Wood, a mile north
'f Comblcs, and at early morning they
had driven the last German from Its
"stern outskirts.
Then the British, after making their
positions strong In tho wood, turned
-vuu. iowara combles. the Important
town that they and the French have been
working for and now seem on the verge
of taking. Fighting Is still going on be
twoen the wood and Combles village.
Hemmed In at Combles.
The present situation 'of Combles is the
karne as that In which other German po
rtions have been placed Just before they
lei . To the north of the village the
Hrltlsh are established In Leuxe wood;
to the south the British and French have
ralfemont farm and have come up to
he outskirts of Combles Itself. Combles
is between the pincers, and the squeexlng
Is already begun,
Combles once taken, and a further ad
vance of the British made from Glnchy
..m Ihoufi, northwest, and the
A Mies will have practically all of the
Albert ridge on -which the Oermana had
"ten Intrenched so strongly.-- Prom that
"age. the country slopes down for sillies,
and German positions there will be sub
let to fire from the -British guns on the
rldce.
The Oermana admit that they are
meeting with, reverses In the Somme
Hfhtlng. They admit In the official
statement telegraphed here from Berlin
Jaat they have lost Clery. and say that
totally destroyed advanced trenches have
Men evacuated. The Germans claim
mirty-one officers and 1,417' prisoners
" ol ln6 oomme, ana assert that
tor.,000 French and British troops are
engaged In the attack.
All the official, statements speak of
T7 artillery fire all along the omme
tront, and particularly north of the
tomms,' where the British II and II Inch
curs fca-ra been boar all day thro wine
I
REVENTLOW MUZZLED
FOR WAR'S DURATION
Berlin "Taffeszeltung'' Again
Suppressed for Strictures
on U. S. Itclicf Work.
SpetM Cable flttpatch to Tns Scs.
Ambthwam, Sept 6. The Berlin
Tagcsicitung has been suppressed once
more, and -Its naval expert, Count von
Itcventlow, has been tnuxxled for the rest
of the war. A slap at American relief
work In Belgium und other territory
now occupied by Gorman troops Is the
cause of the nctljn taken against Count
Von ltevehtlow.
The newspaper announced first that
Count von Iteventlow, who If the most
violently antl-Amerlran of nil German
war writers, had been forbidden In nub-
llsh anything of any kind for tho dura
tion of the war without suhmlttlng It to
tho censor and having it approved. Tho
Tagesztitung added that this was equiva
lent to silencing Count von Iteventlow,
who, tinder such conditions, could never
express his own opinion, but that of the
censor. Later tho paper announced It
had been sutiuresscd. Count von He-
vcntlow'H article, which brought such dls.
approval upon writer and newspaper, de-
nounceu the "monumental shameless-
ness ' of Viscount Grey's reply regard
ing Poland. He asserted the S)stcm
Great Britain was trying to establish
In occupied territories through the agency
of the United States would Injure and
naiuper tho German people In their
struggle for existence.
"As things stand." wrote Von Itevent
low, "there can bo no political or eco
nomic objection to solving all these
questions by Including the occupied ter
ritory in the German organisation for
food distribution, thus getting rid nt
onco of American and other relief work
with all similar attempts at Interference
with our control."
PERSHING RUSHING
BACK INTO MEXICO
Code Jlessago From "Funston
Said to Uc Order to
(ict Villa.
El, Isvso. Tex., Sept. 6. With a code
mreiMKe fion. Gen. Funston In his
pocket Gen. Pcrsrlng left Columbus, N.
.-1 -I-. I 1 , I .... I
. .....
Is known to concern the movements of
Panrlin Vllln. the Mexle.in t.Hlldlt chief.
whose manoeuvres south of tho Pershing j
line lately have been attracting the at
tention of Mexican and American offi
cials. Gen.-ZPershlng declined tn say what
his Instructions were, hut It was believed
here that his orders were to cooperate j
If possible with Carranza odlelals to ex-1
terminate Villa. If this Is not possible
he is to eo after Villa on Ills own ac- t
count If he and his band approach close
enough to the American encampments.
Gen. Pershing had been at Columbus
for several days Inspecting the forces
guarding his base of supplsea nnd evl-,
tenth was In no hurry to return to Mex-
ico. On receipt of the message hurrleil
arrangements were made ror ileparture.
and the General nnd his staff set out
nualn for the south.
suntu Clar.i Canvon. where Villa is re-
nnried n hnvfne lust been seen. Is one
of the most fertile regions in northern,
M.vicn li Is n .vide vallev fed by two
... . . - - - .
rivers and there Is ample natural forage
for horses and as large herds of beef ,
Cf " T)'!, ,"! SuirL i,1;
plenty of food Is available for men.
iru.ua irsuiift (
toHlay carried uddltlonal guards of sol-
Trains leaving Juarez inr mo rain
diers. Mexican mui.ary nuumnini m .
cllned to discuss reports that this step
had been taken because or villa s norm
ward march.
J0HH D.'S WATER BEST IN STATE
nockefeller'a Tnrrton Xelghl.ors
Also Get Full llenrflt of II.
Tie.HVTowN. X. V.. Sept. n. Jnnn i".
Rockefeller and his neighbors have the
purest supply of water In New York
State, according to a repori 01 juincs js.
I.osee to the Tarrytown Hoard of Health.
Mr. I.osee reported that In forty-five
tests of the Tarrytown water In only two
were bacteria found, and thn.i only live
per cubic centimeter.
While the supply Is from sprlngs.crodlt
for the purity of the water Is given to
Mr. Kockefcllcr, for he owns practically
all of the watershed and he keeps It In
excellent condition. The high service
station Is located 011 his property, and
he has surrounded It with cedar trees to
protect It. Mr. Rockefeller Is keen for
pure water, and the news that Tarrytown
has tho purest In the State Is pleasing to
him. The water supply has been ap
praised at $1,000,000.
SOUND BEACON COLLAPSING.
210 Foot Greenwich Church Tower
Shaky Service Stopped.
.Grelvwich, Conn.. Sept. 0. The 210
foot stone tower of the Second Congre
gational Church here, which has been a
guide to Hound vessels for half a cen
tury, la In Immediate danger of falling,
according to the report to the business
committee of the congregation to-day by
Daniel K. Moron, a consulting engineer
of New York, who has Juit completed
an Inspection.
All scrvL-c3 have been discontinued In
the building, tbo big clock has been
stopped and pln.-is for several weddings
have been changed on account of thin
report. The cnurch stands on the high
et iopt of g.nund between New Vol I:
and New London. Repairs to It will cost
between $50,000 and $75,000,
U. S. TO MOVE KAISER'S SHIPS.
Frlaa Kltel apd Kronprlm, With
744 Men, Coins to Philadelphia.
WAS1IINHTON, Sept. 6. Convoyed by
American warships and (lying their own
fl, the German auxiliary cruisers Prlns
Eltel Frledrich and Kronprlnx Wllhelm,
now Interned at the Norfolk Navy Yard,
wilt be transferred to Philadelphia this
month.
The American escort will serve the
double purpose of guarding against an
attempt to escape and protecting the
Oerman boats from attack by allied
warships, as it will be necessary for the
squadron to pass outside the three mile
limit.
The transfer la to be made because
construction of a new dock at Norfolk
has reduced available apace there. There
are SS officers and men on the Prlns
Kltel Frledrich and 410 oa the Kron
prina Wilaabta.
NEAR FIST FIGHT ON
FLOOR OF SENATE
Asliurst Rushes nt Curtis to
lilt ITIm During Angry
Dcbntc.
H0Ti SIDES PASS LIE
lliiinpus Started by Considera
tion of Owen's, Corrupt
Practices Hill.
Washington, Sept. S The bitterest
and most violent political debato the
Senate has heard In years ensued this
afternoon after Senator Owen's motion
to tnke up the corrupt practices bill was
adopted by a vote of 32 to H.
Charges and counter charges were
hurled from the Republican section to
the Democratic side and back again. I.les
wore passed, fisticuffs threatened, and
then with tho air thick with the smoke
of buttle the Senate (piloted the tumult
by going Into secret session to consider
the Danish treaty.
Tbo rhlcf feature of the shindy was a
headlong charge across the Senate afrain
bcr by Senator Ashurst, ex-cowboy of
Arlsona, at Senator Curtis, Republican.
of Kansas, who had Just charged Mr.
Ashurst with abuse of the franking prlv-
llego In mailing out 10,000 letters to j
Arlxona constituents. .
Senator Ashurst knocked Senators'
chairs aside and rushed with upraised
fist af Senator Curtis. Senator Smoot of
Utah shoved hi, .-hair between .he ,. 1
Senators, nnd Mr. Ashurst halted. He
contented himself with shaking his fist
under Senator Curtls's nose and calling
him "a Kansas Pharisee." Then he re
treated to the Democratic side.
"Sweetbreads for Brains."
"The Senator from Kansas has sweet
breads for brain-) when he makes such
charges as that against mo," said Mr.
Ashurst. 'The matter 1 malted out was
passed on by the Post Oftlce Depart
ment as entirely within the franking
privilege."
Senator Ashurst took occasion hern to
praise the record of Senator La Follette,
who, he said, u.ih "as nn outcast among
men whir stood for dishonest govern-
ment." Senator Galllnger, the Itepulill- j
..... Il,l.rr,,,,t.,l n..n. ..Liin.) i
tn Inoiilre If lie meant ...ivthlnir riepn.i.-.l
"
"No: i only meant Galllnger. Penrose.
L ' , '.. ' V w '
liuiri. it iiiakv B I'vtevitui, litanv alio uvo t. i
of It." I
At the mention of Ills name f-'enatnr i
Penrose aroe.
"I urn -.Jlad to see tile nbeee form of
hf Senator from Pennsylvania rise."
nld senator Ashurst. "I am always glad
,,ci,r iro.n ma-, s.ih.iiib i-i.ri.soii 01
purity and virtue.
Mr. Penrose's Itelort.
Senator Pi'nrcse told Mr. Ashurst his
real for the copper Interests In cornier.
tlon with the roiper taxing In the
turlff bill had n "very suspicious look."
Here the lie was hurled. .
"If the Senator from Pinnsylvanla 1
says mat my action naa ueen lumienceil .
i ,,. ... hv th.. n.,r,er lohl.v he n
In any way by the copper lobby he lies,"
!,nl.,i A.i,..'r ' i
-t didn't sv.v the -Senator,, nei!.,K
s;icuiei .nuri.
... .... ..,
v. .... ..... . .,,.rr, ,.
riM ,Vl,rM.. ..j ,neri,ly alll Ml zell,
ft pr. 11S,,U.0,1H 1()oki , course
appearance are sometime very de-
celvlng."
. .......leal encounter aculn ai.neare.t
A pnysl
lr,mi,1Pnti
enalor ..aiunger declared '
llinlnl' Ibhllrut lii. iii.irnuo..l .1. .....
rules of courtey and Insisted that he be .
compelled to withdraw his language. '
Senator JMnes declared both enatcr Asli-
utst and Senator Penrose were to blame.
Hostilities were again averted by Sen
ator Ashurst agreeing to withdraw his
statement.
Wilton Cnni-.Hlan Cnntrlbntore.
Senator Curtis read the names of varl-
ous persons who contributed large sum.
"i money to me iison campaign lunu
-"r nnn.wu m
warded with otllces. Ho proposed an
amendment making it a crime for suc
cessful candidates to reward contribu
tors with otllces. Senator Owen called
his attention to n statement by A.
Mitchell Palmer to the effect that I7;0,-
000 was spent In Pennsylvania alone by
Republican candidates In 1912,
"It Is true that Mr. Palmer made such
n partisan statement unsupported by af-
' fldavlts," retorted Senator Penrose. "He
had no reliable Information upon which
. to base his statements. I have a great
ileal more reliable Information about
several hundred thousand dollars spent
I by the Senator from Oklahoma In his
I last i.tmpalgn."
1 Senator Curtis continued his reading
of tho n'tmes of Democratic campaign
ri"" rlbil'ors In 1912. while Senator
Owen constantly heckled him with de-
' munds. for "more particulars,"
tttnek on Owen.
"I question the sincerity of the men
who nre pushing this bill," shouted back
Senator Curtis. "You come here and
preach about corruption and you who
preach tho loudest are tho worst vio
lators. 'Some years ago 1 was down In Guth
rie, Okla., and It was commonly said that
you could traco thn Senntor from Okla
homa by 'the checks ho had given out
In his campaign. 1 don't know how true
this Is, but I have as much right to say
this here us the Senator from Oklalipma
has to make the charges he has made,"
Nino Republican Senators voted with
the. Democrats to take up the Owen bill,
Debate on tho measure will be resumed
to-morrow
Senator Owen has cancelled an en
gagement to make the keynote speech
beforo the Ohio Democratic Htato con
vention to-morrow. The Owen bill limits
campaign expenditures for each Presi
dential candidate to $400,000 and forbids
the usn of fundH outside the State In
which they are raised,
GERMANY SEEKING TRADE.
Offers Field to Firms Blacklisted
by Great Britain.
Amsterdam (via London), Sept, C
The Frankfort Chamber of Commereo
recently petitioned Dr. von Bethmann
Hollweg, German Imperial Chancellor, to
publish the Huts of foreign firms with
which trading Is prohibited by Great
Hrltaln, to enable German firms to de
velop relations with the blacklisted Arms
and encourage them after the war.
The Fronkurler Zeitung says the Gov
ernment complied with the request and
published the Hits.
JOINT COMMISSION
LABORS ONE HOUR
Mexican Policy of "Mnnnnn"
Encouraged by Hound of
Waiting Pleasures.
FIHST SESSION A SIESTA
Provides Just the Interval "for
Rest From Motoring, Yacht
ing and Golfing.
Nkw London. Conn., Sept. .0. The
American and Mexican Joint Commission
assembled nt this sparkling resort by
President Wilson and First Chief Car
ranxa for the double purpose, as Is gen
erally assumed and privately admitted,
of saving, the credit of the former and
finding ways. and means of securing a
largo bundto of cash for tho latter, and
all beforo election day, has got down to
work.
And yet one hesitates to employ that
word "work," so downright and so harsh
sounding It Is, to describe the movements
of Messrs. Lane, Gray and. Molt, the
Americans, and Senors Cabrera, Bonll
Ifis and Panl, the Mexicans. Their com
ings and goings and their deliberations
are marked by such soothing nnd charm-
lug lelsurellness, by so muny picnic on
land and sea, by so many delightful
luncheons and dinners and by such
utterly enthusiastic efforts to appraise
eoch other's good points and ioiltely I
trumpet them that the term "work" ap-,
applied to them, to be wholl)
out of place, much too abrupt, lacking
lthe savor of amiability,
It's t'nele Sam Who Ps.
Pursued to a corner and pressed hard,
Franklin K. Lane, Secretary of the In
terior and chairman of the American
commission, goes so far as t venture
that In a month. It may lie, something
will gently be evolved from the sessions
mutual admiration that may be really
of Interest to tho people of the two roun.
irle. Hut Mr. Ijine hints that the dif
ferences to be considered arc so delicate
that International courtesy must move
with such elvet feet mat large uraus
will have to ! made on the bank of
time. It Is a situation wnicii just suns
the Mexican conferees, with their na-
tOMal fondness for tnanana and their dis
. . , .1 ...... tt 11 f . -
...... ... le.l.le.. eiervbodv It i
nav ng a love.y .....c . m . ..... . (
&Vy5w.r I. on th. go "all day and lit
W 1MO,r ' 1
inCiV IH3 Iiuiij
From the moment of their arrival here.
ti-here the river Thames Joins the sea. Ill
! ii.wi. .imiMii i.j' til in,- loeil-
m environment that 1 a paradise for.ho renim..hli- signed
yachtsmen and well to do wayfarers, the
leisurely commissioners ''v
tlrely surrounded b rpensle sttam
yaonis. uy preuj ira.u"i-'i
both male anl female, by basket sport
coats, hampagne. uavanas oesi in
cigars, diamonds, golf links, tennis courts
and ott.er seductions that make work,
reem scarcely less than criminal.
Surli lltiajr Day These Arrt
The music of excellent string 1-auds
wo
".. &Z
too rudely of a "'; "Ing.
no.
lin nour or s- at a breakfast of many
1. ...... ,.t ,,...
" ......
'.I I"" M.v.w.er
".' "'".J: ...... ......" ....
laKes inem ou. .ipon wie luiuuoist p.-
w chBrlnall Cabrera, foremost Aster
UchoUr of the western world, discusses
beautiful Aztec calendar with Chair-
: m., !.. who hs learned that Scnnni
...,iu... ..nri.. irl r, v. I.
nil of wh eh great h ntens ties th s
. . . I..
uaoi fr0 motoring or goltlng or
Ma flnwerlng. some one gives a luncheon.
n the course of which the genius of
Wilson Is praised by the Mexican..
b.-ethcrn. while' the greatness of Carranza
!r. not overlooked by tbo Americano three. '
And In the afternoon all too short
there Is more motoring or more golf or
more Mayflonerlng, and then somebody)
gives n dinner very privately ar.d quite i
apart from the intrusive, nurrylng, work- 1
aday public. And there are dancing and
sweet music In the evenings, and so to
bed. 1
Where K.very Prospect Pie.....
At the Hotel Grlswold here on Kastern
Point every prospect pleases and only the I
Mexican border disturbs tho dreams ofKteeI Corporation sold nt a new high
pnn.jMnu 1 ....... .... ....... 1
the conferees. It may be. only imaglna
t ton hot the en 1'Arnesu i.i. I, t..,l..l. ..II .
the high commissioners reach for their
trio high commissioners reach ror their '
morning papers sutgests their npprehen-'
slon that one Pancho Villa or miiiio other j
lowdy not a member of the Carranza
club and not used to diplomatic amenities
mat' have been shooting up another
Texas town or doing something equally
unpleasant which might disturb or em
barrass this Jolly party.
As this Ih written the tw
mlssloners are out at sea upon the hard111'' 1 alasla ns the bulls lifted the stock
working Mayflower, a ship as patiently
useful as the Toonervllle trolley. From
where the big white yacht rolled gently
at her anchorage off the Grlswold, motor
launches, oltlcered by young navy men
In very stiff full dress, with all the
trimmings of cord nnd gold lace, zipped
and churned between yacht and pier,
ferrying commissioners, their staffs and
their friends.
Had rienor Arrcdornlo, the Mexican
Ambassador Designate, been here this
evening tin. salute titles of tho May
flower would have been busy banglrvj
out for him his Ambassadorial due of
nineteen guns. Much powder was burned
that way last evening and this morn
ing and Senor Arredondo was mado very
hapfiy by It. Hut In his alienee this
afternoon a salute was lacking and tho
gay and carefree commissioners put to
sea for a holiday afternoon with sand
wiches and noft drinks without clamor
or powder fumes.
The motion picture scouts chased them
from hotel to pier and even to tho ac
commodation ladder of the Mayflower
and there was a great running about
and scurrying on tho jiart of tho 'Com
mon People, who wanted to get a close
gllmpoc of tho Dignitaries. They the
dignitaries, of course Mulshed their
day's work, polite Inqulrira after the first
chief ' health mostly, between 11 A, M,
and noon, and now they haven't a thing
to do until next Friday morning except
to recuperate from the struln of this
morning's ecsstou.
Session Wholly Informal. .
The first session of the commission
was not expected tn be productive and so
no one was surprised or disappointed.
Chairmen Cabrera and I.ane explained
after the meeting that a two days recess
waa considered necessary In order that
Continued on ralnf Pag.
SUB WA Y AND ELE VA TED S TRIKE ON
GREEN CAR MEN ALSO VOTE TO QUIT;
5,000 POLICE PUT ON GUARD DUTY
.'. . .-A . A.dAnt. - WV.S ivhn. -.Art. . A. ' i
PhotoKr.itth rilZRrrnl'b !' 1nltriiHtinn.il
Tr JarSJLSK (and
mated Association of Street Railway
traction crisis
SHONTS, DEFYING MEN, SA YS
STRIKE VIOLATES AUG. 7 PACT
I. R. T. Differences Not Arbitrable, He Asserts Right
of Making Contract Guaranteed by Constitution
of U. S. Shows Fight in Statements.
Theodore P. Shflnts. president of the
Interborough nn.I the New Vork Itall-
ways
..trii,
'ompany. ugalnst which lines
wen- declared l.tlt night, in two
statements covering the situation of i nch
line contended that the differences be
tween the lnterl-oniugh and tin- men
are not urbltrable, while on the otht r
system the strikers have violated the
" rm" ".' agreement (Ira w II up AU-
before Mayor Mltchel and ocar
rllMrmM of m ,,,,,,,. S(irvlo
ft?'0"- Slr- '"""' -ttc...ent-
Interborough 'The request to arbl
i
trate tho conditions under which the j
9.000 agreements were signed came from
a small .minority of tin- men none of
Vt, . reii'll. d that the rlclit of
making .. contract Is gua.antce.I by the
Constimtio,, (lf ,. fmted Sl.it. mid
mm tne couris nave otalUMieil well He-
fined procedure for determining when
contracts have been entered Into as a
result of duiess or fraud.
"In other words, If thee contract-! are
not the result of the full exercise of a
privilege of rltlxrnshlp, It is not neces
sary for u to agree to ntbltr.ur. Tin
courts themselves will take cognisance
ZXXrrtZ Tile
,urt ll llkewl-e hold rcr-ponslble any
,"" will likewise hold region.
witness giving perjured testimony, a
Pw-r not possess, d by any lay nibtra
live trlhunal w
vhlch might be established,
i.,son nut of i i.Tou.
"The plain nnd simple Issue s whither
because an outside union wants to sup
plant ami fasten Itself upon the organi
zation .formed by 9, -mi out of 11,7101 of
our men the right of the overwhelming
'majority or our employees to .make a
I il"M satlsfact ory to them shall be
destroyed.
"Any talk" of refusing to aibltrate Is
simply an attempt to becloud an Issue
which Is now presented to the people of
New York very clearly. We feel con
vlnce.l that the safety ar.d etllclcnry of
the railway service of this city Is at
stake and we expect to .In everything we
STEEL COMMON PASSES PAR.
,U" Mnrk nt tm Hec.ir.l
17S,MIO Shore. Cl.anu. ll...U.
The common stock or ttie I'tilte.l States
record for all time on the Stock 1.x-
'1,;,nB,, jesterd.ty
The stotk opened
' -" '
wide under vigorous demand at 09U and
9ili and mounted steadily until In the
Uarly afternoon t touched nil's on a
! purchase of .100 shales. This was the
I high Ktlnt of tho day, from which the
' ls"' reacted moderately and closed at
inn's, u net gain of 1 points for tho
session.
Interest In the premier speculative Is-
ever par lor me. ni-i ...no in us iiimo.(v
nnd the stock chnng.-d hands in huge
volumes. Total sales for the .fay of tho
.ssue were more than 27,i)iW shares.
The prolonged and suhMantlul advance
which the stock has enjoyed caused much
protlt taking, but this was absorbed con
fidently by persons conversant with the
wonderful business which the Steel Cor
potation Is doing and Its record earn
ing'. Morn than n million shores of stork
were dealt ill on the exchange during the
session, wide Interest being aroused by
the splendid leadership of Steel. Tln
shares of minor steel companies were in
demand and coppers enjoyed good ac
tivity. GOV. HOLC0MB RENAMED.
Switch In Connecticut Ilrpiibllrnn
Convention Wins for lllm.
New Havkn. Conn., Sept, 0, After n
ilny f tedious roll calls the renomlnatloti
of Gov. .Marcus II, Holcoml. came Willi
dramatic suddenness to-day in the Re
publican State t-iinventiiin,
For a time the vote had stood Frouk
IC. Healy, Windsor Locks, 191 j Holcomb,
lS,r. : Dennis A. Hlakeslee, New Haven,
former Lieutenant-Governor, 136; Lieut.
Gov, C. H. Wils'-Mt, Hrldgeport, 115, On
tho tlfth ballot the Hrldgeport delegation,
which had been solidly for Wilson,
swung to Holcoml. umld cheers, tithets
followed and finally tho nomination was
mado unanimous,
Tlie rest of the ticket was nominated
by acclamation, ns follows: I'nlted
States Senator, Georgo P, McLean,
Himslnirv Llei.te.iniii.(.ove.'or. ('lirfonl
H. Wilson, Hrldgeport : Secretary of
State, Frederick L. Perry, New Haven
Comptroller, Morris C. Webster, Harwln
ton, and Treasurer, Frederick 8. Cham
berlain. New Britain.
Him Servicer
'
Employees, opposing leaders in the
legitimately can to protect our patrons.
ur loyal met. and tne excellence
and :
continuity of our service.
Mlt.-hel-Mrn.l-. Pari.
('lien
X. Y
Hallways Any strike on thci
green New Vork lt:iliw.iys nirfac cur
lines will he in direct violation of the
ngiermnit signed Atiiii-t 7 by union of
tlcers wltli Manr .Mltchel nnd Chairman
Str.uw, wherein It was provided:
"It Is also ngieed that all disputes
that may arle between the company
nnd the employees .tn the future on
which tluy riinunt mutually agree
shall 1h submitted to arbitration as
herein provided.
"The ollkcrs of this company had. In
accordance wiUi the agreement of Au
gust 7, received a committee of em
pin res headed by others of the union.
Th.it committee had presented various
letpjests To some of these we had
ilgieed, to others we 1 i.i .1 been unablx to
agree, and we expected to meet with
tin committee and draft a statement of
he tnootisl iiuestinns pirparatnry to ar
bitration. li.lks of Contrnels.
"To-day we were asked If we had 1
proposed t'- New Vork Hallways
-m-I
nlovies a form of contract covering con
illtlons of rinpln ment. Wo stated that
no such contract bad been distributed .1
.u-i eUlI. . ..o.ud a ... ,
proof forms had been ' " .. The ,
fact was thai we had determined to'
withhold any distritmllon of any con-
tract for the present.
-.Nothing whatever had been done
i.i.-u i.y an- . nam e conn, aneci in any
M-spect the agr.eun nt of Au8,,.,t , e
stood ready to abide by that agreement
"'. ,'Vr- ."'.?"!'.''" "r,,tra"' "'
The union, before to-d.i's meeting,
had voted favoring n s nipath. tle strike
in connection with the InterbototiKli sit
tiitlon. As a sympathetic strike Is so
eh ally a violation of tho agreement of
August 7 with the Mayor and Chairman
Straus, any claim of bad faith toward us
now s plainly an insiuceie attempt tn
befog a very clear Issue."
! SANTA FE DEFIES R. R. LAW.
Will .Not Ol..-) s Hour M ensure
I mil Forced I.y Ml.reie Court.
TolT.K.x, Kan., Sept. .1. K, P. Ripley,
ptesldent of the Atchison, Topeka ami
Santa I e Railway, declared In a formal
statement to-night that the Santa Fr
- - .. - .....
does not tend to comply with tho Adam-
son tight hour law recently enacted h
Congress to avert a threatened rallioad
sttlke until ordered to do so by the
United States Supreme Com I.
President Ripley declared that the so
called eight hour law was nothing more
than an advanre of 20 to 2.'. per cent. In!
wages to the men who receive the most
money In the railway sc.-.ice. Mr. l.lp-
ley's Statement follows
"I.rlioi organizations enacted a so
called eight hour law. which Is nothing
more nor less than an ndvnnce of 20 tt.
"' per cent, in the wages of the best paid
men In railway service. Jt la only fair
to the public and to our cmplojces lo
say that the Atchison, Topeka and Santa
F Railway Company .Io.-m not Intend to
loiuply with the law until ordered to .lu
sn by tho court of last resort."
W.vsHINilTiiN, Sept, li. -Hearings be
fore the Joint Cniigi'CHsl dial sub commit
tee on railroad pioblems will begin here
November 20, The committee agreed on
the date to-day and decided to Invite
statenienta from the Interstate Com
meire Commission, Statu railroad com
missions, representatives of the roads
and of boards of trade, bankers nnd
others Intensted.
Whllo the Joint committee's work wilt
be distinct from that of tho special In
I vesllgatlng conimlssljn authorized by the
Adamsou law enacted to prevent thn
threatened strike. Its scopo will bo broad
and any legislation recommended may
Include provisions dealing with wages
and other- questions Involved III the pres
ent controversy between the roads and
their employees,
CANAL WILL REOPEN TO-DAY.
(lour f'liniinel fur .ill Vmifli, Hot.
flaamftsailai laaaaaaastlai
Washington, Sept. fi. Plans for re-
I opening the Panama Canal to-morrow,
' with a clear channel to nil classed of
i vessels, were reported to the War De-
. narlineiit late to-day ny (iov. Goethals.
The canal has been partly obstructed
for several days by a giant boulder.
onr.AT hear nrniNo water.
Me. the cm of six (lass stoppered bottltfc
Motormen, Guards and Station Men
Leave Posts Interboro Promises
to Operate Trains To-day
Violence at the Start
TWO. ARRESTS
Company Discharges 200 Union Employees for
Urging the Unorganized Men to Quit "A
Lockout," Says Organizer Fitzgerald
New York city this morning is in the grip of the biggest
anil mnt vitnl strikp in its historv: union cmnlovees of the
interborough Rapid Transit, which embraces the subway and
u iinett ui iUHlliiilUHii itiiu i lie jiiuiia, vuieu iu quit nn bci-
vice at 9:28 last night and at 11 :05 the unionized strength of
the New York Railways Company, which gathers within its
compass all but two of the important municipal car lines
within the same borough limits, had followed suit.
With the recording of the votes in these transit systems
a concerted campaign for the stoppage of traflic on every line
was instituted by the Amalgamated Carmen's Union under
the direction of William B. Fitzgerald, general organizer,
who for several months has been promoting transit strife
here.
Cars Ordered to Barns in Fear of Violence.
So suddenly mid effectually did the i I'oli;-0 "Id that Investigations had been
successive blows full, so menacing be- ' mailu , Ver' "'"Plaint and that
cam,, the prospect of violence to tho '"Zu" "I'I'cared to havo been
, irainmiii who rciusvu 10 qun ineir
'.mini that nt 11:4r. I-Y,mk lle.llev.
-
vice-pros-iucni nnd general manager .it
the liiterboniiigh nnd New Vork llull-
ways, ordered tho housing of every
street car on his lines until dawn this
morning.
After ) o'clock this morning the
companies will employ nil tho re-
sources they have beon assembling for
months to put their cars in operation.
However, even with the strike break
ers who are to supplant the union
men there Is a prospect of one-tiunrter
of the normal service on the "green
car" lines. The subway nnd "I"
trains will be running tit about
per cent, efllclency, according to tin
plans already formulated.
.
Strike Will Spread.
Wore nightfall It Is almo-t IneMta-
bV the strllt- will tpread and take M
the Third Avenue line, tho Second Ave-
.... ti,.e. th iiiehmnnd svsten.. the
v.... v...i, .......... ,...".. n.nr...i
n,i t..,..u... in,... i..' ..... s,rii.-n i.t
month these lines were attlllated 111 the
.,; ,,. m(M) ,',' N,.w Vork
,.l..l.K ., ow U, UI1. t,,le,l In the
,,. ,, .,.,,, ft rnMM.cl , tll0
,,, ,.,..... ,,,.'1,1 T,,n.i. -m
men of the Itrmiklvn lti.nld Transit will
, , . fh . .f . . ,k
ir..n..,in..rv in.n.-i.iln!,. of the len.ner
of . ,.,; ,,.,, tl,e ,-lty will be)1'
. ..,,.,, , ..v,..,,,,,.,.,., .iiirlni.- the trouble.
wm , f(.w ,,., nf.r th(, .. .
... . . .. , , ,wli i.h Inter-
borough ",;: ZUn "lion .ilgenlH at
tho Forty-second street station of the
Ninth avenue "I," and the Thirty-fourth
I street station of the Third avenue over
, In ad had ib-M-rted without protecting
I their money or ticket
'Hie fast actual overt act was brought
in police attention before 12 o'clock
when word was received that at two
other slntlnn strikers had Invaded the
platform to tumble ticket boxes to the,
itrct
Men (toll Placet..
In addition to these desertions of
agents here noted there were wholesale
secessions of men at the various barns,
lb-fore the echoes of the strike cheers,
had .11. d couriers from tho voting places
I were speeding In motor cars to the
various car barns. Here, when untie."
"as k.-ii, iniminneii ipui. ineir mixes
, trainmen their nlatfnrms Fo
j hlacl". "it 165th str.-rt and Klghth
mie, twenty men left trains that
avc-
were
In readiness for runs. The same was'
the rule at other hams. Men on trains'
or In transit ha.l to run their charges
to the bains before Joining the move-,
ment against the companies.
ih.- two votes of last night wipe out
all the results i.cile,eil with the end "f
tno car strike In August. This was
hi. night to a termination by Mayor
Mltchel nnd Os.-ar Straus, chairman of
the Public Service Commission, Neither
of these otllclals, who stiived so zeal
ously to bring harmony between thn
workers .und employers, was given op
portunity to stavo off this new crisis,
Mn.vnr Mltchel Is motoring to New York
from Plattshurg with his wife. The news
probably will not reach him to-night, but
he will know early this morning nnd will
Immediately abandon his trip to return
by train.
The other mediator, Chairman Straus,
ordered an investigation at 11 o'clock
this inornlnu. Four men were supposed
to appear before tho Public Service Corn
mission at 120 Broadway at that hour.
They are. President hlionts and General
Manager lledley of tho transit com
panies, nnd W, H. Fitzgerald, general
organizer of the strike, and William Con
way, president of the Inteiboiough Lo
c.ll No. 722. The suhpii-nas wen. Is.
sued -by James H. Walker, the commis
sion's secretary.
Thirty minutes after the strike order
was Issued .1,000 policemen detailed
solely to strike duty were on their way
Into Manhattan for guard duty, Willi
the morning many of theso men will
man the cars with tho strikebreakers or
the loyal employees. Their work was
mapped out -weeks ngo by tho commit
tee of Inspectors In headquarters.
Their work began almost at once. Two
men were arrested nt 12130 A. M,,
clmrged with attempting to intimidate
the ticket agent nn the Second avenue
"L" at Slxty.tlfth street. These men,
who gave their names as Israel Simp
son, 00 Hast 107th street, nnd Robert
Rynn of 457 Fast 13Sth street, were
held In $300 ball each I.y Magistrate
Deuel In th" Night Court,
Reports of numerous acts of violence
by strikers were received at Police Head
quarters from General Mantrer Hedlejr
and "other Interborough sources. The
ON ELEVATED
ievent the no-slbllit v of erltlelsni
i ...... ?....., .J I1 . "f.
iu in.- ji.tfsuK;.iion in 01
in.- i. Kiris of viol, n by the Inspectors,
Deputy Commissioners Lord. Scull and
ininnani personally cheelad up and In
vestigated the lumplalnta uh they wcio
received.
It Is clear the strike will be waged
with most untuual bitterness, even for
a car strike. On the union side It is u
struggle for existence. Should it be
oeaien, 11 win iose tne giuund It Hon
last month after u seventeen jeais ef
fort to Invade New Yoik. For the ln
tirboiough, u defeat will mean prac
tically a complete- subsert leiico to the
union Iilen.
In the strike Just concluded tho victory
of the Amalgamated was the swiftest
nnd must far teaching In loctn linlustil.il
I history. Fiiith.-inioie, the advantages
. were won lor the men of tho "green
i-ars" after only a few days of battle
.which was particularly tree from vlo-
i'"'"''"- 'nui company, with the other
' transit organlza Ions Involved In that
, '."'''"V "." to inake a su. rend. r of lights
ha.l held inviolate for many year...
.Now, however, tho ex. cutlves of the
Interborough feel that the unions In the
vaulting ambition lm e o el leaped lllem-
J,lst !l "'' Pr.-...a.m. I. Ihe,
sliice tin- agt. enieiit foried hv Mayor
Mltchel and ('halt man Straus to capltu-
s,'w Hallways otllclals
ihave been iliafed .onstautly by the re
, strlctlons Imposed by the unions. Only
vw 'u "t-'1' Mnor Mltchel brought
mem lo coinpulsfiiy leemn iivinent ol
fourteen discharged men.
t From that time, and mote acutely in
the last week, the railway olticlals haw
i suffered from the unending sunelllame
of the unions. Finally Hedlcy, who pr...
tically will be the Field Marshal In
, tills fight. Uneaten;',! to quit his Job
! unless the unions halted their inter-
, ferenro with his plans. He now bas
back of him In the battle hl president
' hi' board of director and unlimited
' wealth
I'lttlit for It rem n it Inn.
The unions are rmt unprepared. They
hav been striving for .M-.irs to get ..
foothold In this town. Although their
success last month was of exceptional
Importance, It lacked one element for
their complete satisfaction. None of the
companies who entered into tin- aerie
merit .it August 7 would .vleld union ic..
' ..gnltlon. It Is to gum that the prescn
, lisht l on. There Is much iunm-y behind
me, .xmaig.uuait.1, mere Is a nig follow-
;t,Mini pledged in the !m-rtrugh so fn
as known. If they fall now tine win
lose everything. Therefore tlie will
tight to a ilnish. The same m.iv'be ex
pected from lledley
The ntrlko meeting was held In
Lyceum Hall, lllghty-sixth stieet and
Ihlrrt avenue, which was the plain
win-re the organization's tumultuous,
gatherings in the last struggle occurred
When W. H. Fitzgerald, organizer of
the Amalgamated, who has been pro
moting the strike; Louis PrldlKcr, coun
sel for the local union, and James II
Vahey, general counsel of tho organi
zation, arrived at tho hall the whole en
terprise seemed doomed U. failure.
A strJlnlng crowd of workliiKiuen had
been expected by some of the labor riieti
Instead at S ;30 there were scarcely r.n.i
men In th- place, and they inadn Its
emptiness seem vaster. Tin- . leadert
conferred whllo agitators went through
the neighborhood getting the men to
gether. When tho whole asseniblagi.
was gathered It was sen that In tho
crowd there were some men of the Sec
ond Avenue line, Identlllablo by their
blue shirt, and employees of the Third
Avenue, as was marked by tho brown
straw hats.
Ask for Vote of Men.
P. J. O'llrlen opened the meeting at
9 o'clock, and after a long preamble In
which the meetings of tho cnmmttteo
with the olllclnls of tbn Interborough
were recited President Conway put tho
question In these words:
"While tho thousands of members nt
last Friday's meeting nuthnrlzed your
committee In such an event to declato
an Immediate suspension of work, y.urr
committee, after fully considering' tho
fact, realized the Importance nnd re
sponsibilities which such action might
mean to every Individual employee 1.
though not desiring to shirk the respon
sibility placed on tt'by tho resolution
we htivo determined Hint thn better
course tn follow would he to report tin.
facts to yon and resubmit tho question.
Whit Is your pleasure?"
Immediately, as If there had been .i
concerttntiHter directing, the cry rose In
unison :
"Strike, strike, we want n strike."
Finally when the tumult coul-l b-t
silenced President Conway asked thu
