NIGHT.
EXTRA
VOL. II. NO. 307
It
FINANCTAl 'EDTTTO-N
imunn
lErifcger
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 101G ,
Comiuht, ltlS. t tdi reiuo LtMn Cow mm-
FOUR HELD FOE HOMICIDE IN DOUBLE DROWNING
I,
BmL $Ham aBBVr& X"8iaFJe 'ssneggniifaanwBagsjCT?sgLv snMPslnjlnMnTsannnwsaWsWlajwnW
,IDHHB',HHiVlfflHRB!
miiiii - i. ! m .. ""m"1t1-ti--iHibViif.'rtfc.k)jrtJifrff1?iSli,r iWrf r . g . . - .. . '
...-ii. n.si,s..-. ..,,.w -- ' j---.-., ,-r-nr-ii u.u 4
Occupants of a motorboat which, it is ailcRcd, caused tho overturning of a canoe, resulting in tho drownim-
Lardncr'a jroint on Labor Day, were held on a chargo of homicide today at Central Station. Left to richt. they
street; Peter Strutski, 2622 Bridge street; Fred Zanczak, 4765 Melrose street, and Stanley Mirccki
of Alice and Jennie Mnussncr off
arc William Hafskl. 4763 Mclroso
, 4724 Melrose street.
FRENCH RETAKE
1500-YARD LINE
IN VERDUN DASH
.Wrest Important Defenses
From Foe in Counter-
Attack
ALLIES GAIN ON SOMME
i$j
BERLIN, Sept 7. In successful
counter-attacks south of the Soramc the
Germans have wrested from the French
initial advantages won at Berny-en-Santcrre,
(Denlccourt and Chaulncs, it
was officially announced today. The
French, -""vjjver, obtained a footing in
Vermandovimrs.
j PARIS. Sept 7.
Of ther most succeE&fut counter-
Results of First 18. Holes
in Third Round Golf Play
"DOBBY JONES, Atlanta, beat
- Robert Gardner. Chicago, 1 up.
Chick Evans, Chicago, beat John
G. Anderson, New York, 6 up.
D. Clark Corkran, Baltimore, beat
Cameron B. Buxton, Philadelphia,
2 up.
Jess Guilford, Boston, beat Gardi
ner White, Flushing, L. I., 3 up.
In on
attacks e!nce thj German drive on Verdun
Mytoetfan. th( French last night captured the
C:, entire ISiDO, yardi of German flrst-llne po
sitions emending from Vaux-Chapltre to
! Chenols Vood, northeast of Verdun.
I The "War Offlct announced that 2B0 men
I and 10 nAtrallleLses were captured In this
operation.!
Combles, and Claulnes, the two main sup
ports of ti Present German lines on the
Bomme, arp being pocketed and threatened
with early capture by the steady advance
of the AUlf s.
The thrust that carried the Trench lines
through tile greater part of tho village of
Berny-en-S-ahterfo and Into the outskirts
of Chaulm's yesterday afternoon was made
In the fac of tnost desperate German re
sistance. The Germans defended their posi
tions with creat stubbornness, and time and
again coui'ter-attacked.
The Frpnc"h advance brought General
Foch's llr'e still closer to the Chaulnes
Jtronne Xla'ilwty, .Another sharp drive
forward "will cut this German line of com
munication entirely.
The British push that resulted In the
capture of Leuze wood, a mile from
Combles, was a surprise attack made while
the Germans were heavily engaged with
the French In the outskirts of Combles.
The wood ,ws first attacked from the,
eouin. wrien me mam ooay or uerman
soldiers had been drawn to that line the
British suddenly broke Into tho wood from
the west, cutting off a body of Germans and
driving straight against the German posi
tions In less than 30 minutes of fighting.
The present situation of Combles Is the
tame as (hat In which other German posi
tions have been placed Juet before they fell,
"o the north of the village the Drlt'eh are
established In Leure wood ; to the south the
British and French have Falfemont farm
and hare comp up to the outskirts of Corn
bits Itself. Combles Is between the pincers,
and the squeezing Is already begun.
Combles once taken and a further ad
vance of the Brjt'sh made from Glnchy
toward Lesboeufs, northwest, and the Al
lies will have virtually all of the Albert
rdge on which the Oermans had been in
trenched so strongly. From that ridge the
country slopes dowri for mites, and Ger
man positions there will be subject to Are
from the British guns on the ridge.
The Germans admit that they are meet
ing with reverses in tho Bomme fighting.
They admit In the official statement tele.
grsphed hers from Berlin that they have
lest Clery. and say that totally destroyed
s.drsnceo' trenches have been evacuated,
GARDNER 1 DOWN
TO JONES AT END
OF THE 18TH HOLE
Evans Beats Anderson 6 Up
and Buxton Is 2 Down to
Corkran
GUILFORD LEADS . WHITS
GERMANS TAKE
20,000 MEN IN
RUMANIA DRIVE
Capture 100 Cannon in Oc
cupation of Tutrakan,
Bucharest Key
AIDED BY BULGARIANS
-' i WW 1 wy
yKgK&yJHpgf'H
sfiBH
m&4?v1sHsBsbH
ir sssr , W4 s?- wH
, T v1silMHsMsM
i flsHs7H
"i ssgsssssyTtr--tn - scsH
IV "' sssK tf I m
HH'' ''' sKstsHFjiJsf jJsssH
h'. ssi-K(rsKssBssS
sH'rgstsH
ix . -!-': SSSBi '''A.SlSSS
mA fixi nlm aWmf
sssssjSMsWi'TZ;arsXaNiMt sBwHInB6 I
ATHENS, Sept. 7. All foreign, sub
Jects, whose expulsion was ordered by
the Allies, hare been warned by the
Greek police to leave within 24 hours.
Among them 'is Baron Schcnk, who has
had charge of the agents spreading the
pro-German propaganda.
LONDON, Sept. 7.
German and Bulgarian forces have scored
tho greatest victory In tho Balkans since
Rumania entered the war- seven days ago.
Tho strongly fortified Rumanian town jt
.Tutrakan, on the Danube blocking tho way
to the Rumanian capital, only 33 miles to
the northwpst, has been captured with 20,000
prisoners. Tho Germans and Bulgars struck
a quick blow, trapped tho Rumanian on
.the south bank of the Danube, and besides
capturing more than half a Rumanian army
corps, bagged 100 guns and caused the Ru
manians heavy losses, Berlin reported this
afternoon.
The Iobs of Tutrakan was officially ad
mitted by the Rumanian War Ofllce this
afternoon, though no mention was made of
Russian forces co-operattr i the defense
The German "War Ofllce lat innounced the
capture, with details as to prisoners and
guns.
I BERLIN. Sept 7.
Twenty thousand Rumanian troops were
captured by the German-Bulgarian trmy
when the Rumanians abandoned Tutrakan,
PHILS ANNEX
FIRST BATTLE
FROM BRAVES
Rixey Holds Braves With
out Safety for Six In
nings; Then Weakens
FOUR HITS NET TWO RUNS
Continued en Tare lire, Column Two
By CHANDLER D. RICHTER
BRAVES' FIELD, Boston, Sept, 7. Dode
Paskert put tho Phillies In the lead In the
first Inning of today's first game by slam
ming: a lone triple to right and scoring on
NlehofTs out.
With eight points separating the first
three teams in the National League race,
a largo crowd was expected. .Although ex.
cellcnt weather conditions prevailed, the
ctowd was small, considering tho Impor
tance of the series.
Stalllngs selected tho veteran, Pat Ragan
to oppose Epfia Rlxey. Both Dick Rudolph
nnd Ragan were warmed up and Stalllngs
selected tho latter when ho saw that Moran
Intended to use his southpaw Btar.
Stalllngs figured thnt If rtlxey was right
It would bo almost Impossible to beat him
and he did not want, tn un. T...i-tt-
whereas. If Rlxev had n. hnri rlv ..
.- .- . -j, w.ijr una
could beat lilm.
The young pitcher picked up by Moran
Is named William Kelley nnd he comes from
Dean Academy. Moran will takohlm South
next spring. He looks like a great prospect
having great speed and an easy delivery'
Moran would not dlscloso his Identity until
he had decided to sign him.
FIRST INNING
Paskert smashed a triple to deep right
Nlehoff went out. Eagcn to Koney, Paskert
scoring on tho play. Stock went out tho
same way. Craath fanned. Ono run, one
hit, no errors.
Stock's throw retired Maranvllle. Snod
grasa lined to Stock. Wllhoit filed to
Paskert. No runs, no hits, no errors.
SECOND INNING
Whltted singled to center, but died steal
lng, Gowdy to Maranvllle. Luderus popped
Continued on Tate Fire, Column Three
SISTERS' BODIES FOUND;
4 MEN HELD BY COURT
ON HOMICIDE CHARGE
Father Weeps and Kisses Jew
elry as He Makes Identi
fication of Drowning
Victims
L
CmUm4 on Tat Fire. Cehtaui Fgw
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
S
, For FMUftiphia and vMrttyCen
Wily oMtV tonifht and FrUky, wth
frtbrikt Kfht rains oeniinumi
mrttntflti wrw, gentle wkute, meativ
HHthmet. f
UOMTM OK, OAT
152 ,:;:; . ., MS
IIKUWASK klVKK T1BK OMAKCMM
b is'' iisT'tfi2, ::,"'MBf
WsWMUtW AT KA44 MWI
$3.
fflffiE
R; T. JONES, JR. I
Tho boy wonder from the South,
who is holding his own with, Na
tional Champion Bob Gardner in
the national amateur polf tourn
ment an the Mellon Club coursy.
By SANDY McNIBLICK i
MERION OOLF CLVB, HAverford, (a.,
Sept 7, nobby Jones, twlce-7-year.lld,
pink-cheeked, Juvenile Juggernaut of tie
sunny squth, trampled on Bob Gardner,
champion, today at Merton Irf the nations!
golf championship. I
The boy golfer led at the end Qf the first
Mnnd t9 iVm nll.jtav HAasInn k.. ilul i!
.-..-. . .... -..-, nniun uj nw margin
rtt 1 tin. Tin lAst n rhacifA m h- 1.1. J
on the home hole, but he Jest a stroke on a
musea aw, e anq ma ueautirm iron worn
after that was of no avalL
An enormous throng of itattn.-mad
fans packed around every shot aad, roared
with applause at shot after shot Muoh of
the sentiment backed Jones, buthere'wer
hundVeda who nulled Just u hard for
Gardner, the tottering; king of Amsrlean
amateurs.
Ohtek Evans, United IWatm-owj ohim.
pfon, was 6 up at. the d of the first J
ivelss on John O. Anderson, fiwnit In the
national last ysar. Cbk. whobwt Aiwter
ml mU for the eteusftJonetilp of
rranas an the th!rty-ehth Uoh, but was
UaUn U turn by AuUreon at 0rdt) city,
tuut h's netorloujly had jmttlog wwklng J
Aaa sstaix and hld bis Mwaney rival for
tka UU safe at all tiros durtai las morn
lad rvuod. t
)mm OitlUord, tres-UUlM lt of New
pm wnmnfimmm v flfw 4WPnftMl I
NO BAIL FOR PRISONERS
The recovery of the bodies of Alice and
Jennie Mausaner, 1910 Drldge street. Brides
burg, who were drowned off Lardner's Point
In the Delaware, and the holding of four
young men without ball on a charge of
homicide, were the latest developments to
day In the Labor Day tragedy,
While George and Elmer Mllllgan, of
W.ssinomlng, were facing the four men
whom they accused of being responsible for
the death of the Mausaner slaters In the
Central police court, the bodies of thu tfrls
were found by Detective Ayers In the Dela
ware not far from the scene where they
met death when their canoe was over
turned. The body of Alice was found near Al
legheny avenue wharf and within an hour'
that of Jennie was discovered on the eight
mile mud flats on the Jersty aide of the
Hv?r sear tho Morris and Deialr pumping
tlonj
BLAMB8 MKN,IN BOAT.
'redtrlek. Mausaner, father of the girls,
t bearing that the body of one of his
SlwSFtKtrs ,had been found, hastened to the
MguV There be Identified the body or
A1W T Jewelry whlh su had worn.
juawur wtt as h klMd the Jewelrr
of hW dauMr, WWk- at the Mergu he
hearo, of tha Kflog of the hviy 9t Jsnnls,
and K was yftth great eKerjt that be oen
trolles his grief,
Th,Me tew nsen In the teatorfeoat were
rjMHl death of my rjs," he
saU. PThsy sw t ths girls were prUr
umI imim wm in uwr Soaf I havtt
AotiOsy astna the two MlUUtan ly.
Th sUlMi hrsthaM rpMU4 their
atotyot the boat rM ft4 tU hr
SUFFRAGISTS TO RIDE
TO BALLOT ON TIDE OF
LIBERTY, CHIEF SAYS
Time Has Come to Shout Aloud
Woman's Hour Has Come,
Mrs. Catt Declares
J?l a Blaff Corrttvondent
ATLANTIC CITV, Sept 7. A call to
womankind to arUe and claim the political
liberty that beckons In this crisis In the
world's history was Issued by Mrs. Carrie
Chapman Catt, president of the National
American "Woman Suffrage Association, In
an address before this afternoon's session of
the forty-eighth annual convention of that
body here.
"The woman's hour has struck," she de
clared . Impressively. "The time has come
to shout it aloud In every city, village and
hamlet
"Another tide of political liberty, similar
to that of HIS, but of a thousand.fold
greater momentum, Is rising from the
battlefield and hospital, from camp and
munitions factory. In great Britain hun
dreds of bitter, active opponents have con
fessed their comerslon on account of the
war service of women. Above the roar of
the cannon, the, scream of shrapnel and,
the whirr of the aeroplanes, one who
listens may hear the cracking of fetters
which have long bound the European
woman to outworn contentions.
MARCH OF DEMOCRACY
"The woman's hour has struck. It has
struck for the women of Europe and for
those of all the world, Jf our own. nocple
possess tbsi seaee of patriotism arfjl the
sense tC nationality wfcloh should b tho
InberltaHM of an American, they will net
wait until the war is endsd, but will boldly
jsad la'ifca Inevitable rnarch of democracy,
our own Amarleaa KMteleity."
Tae eswiptala chaise after he war U
LATEST SPORTS
BOSTON 0 0 0
ATHLETICS 0 00
Foster nnri Thomas, Nabors and Picluich.
PHILLIES, 1st G.. 1 0 0 0 2 0 1 0 0 4 12 2
BOSTON 000000200 2 5,0
nixey, Killefer; Itagan, Reubach, Dowdy. Quljjley and Byron.
PHILLIES, 2d G.. 0 0 ,
BOSTON 0 0
RIXEY 'ALSO BEATS BRAVES, INCREASING PHITS' LEAD
PHILLIES r h o a e
Pasktrt.cf 1 1 o 0
Ni'hoff, 2b 0 12 3 2
Sleek, 3b o 1 3 4 0
Cravath.rf., 0 1 l o 0
Whitted.lf 0 2 10 0
Luderus.lb 1 1 15 0 0
Bancroft.ss , 2 2 0 2 0
Killefer.c 0 14 0 0
Riy.P 0-10 4 0
f
Totals 4 1227 13 2
BOSTON r h o a e
Maranvllle. ss 0 0 S 1 0
Snodcrass, cf 1 1 4 1 0
Wilholt.rf 0 0 0 0 0
Macee.lf 10 4 0 0
Konetchy, lb 0 13 2 0
Smith,3b 0 2 0 0 0
Egan,2b 0 112 0
Gowdy.c , 0 0 4 4 0
Ragon.p 0,0 0 5 0
Ruelbach.p... 0 0 0 0 0
Totals , 2. 5 27, 15 0
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Belmont race, 2-year-olds, selling-, purse $500, 6 furlongs
straight Kunning Shot, 107, Buxton, 4,to 5, out, out, wonj'Glana
ginty, 105, J. McTaggart, 0 to 5, out, out, second; Velour, 110, Trox
ler, 40 to 1, 6 to 1, even. Time, 1.13 3-5.
FORD SUES CHICAGO TRIBUNE FOR LIBEL5 ASKS $1,000,000
CHICAGO, Sept. 7 Henry Ford, the Detroit manufacturer and -peace
advocate, .today brought a suit against the Chicago Tribune tor
$1,000,000, alleging malicious libel. The -suit was filed in Federal
Co'urfc'nere by Alfted Lucking, of Detroit, one of Mr. Ford's personal
attorneys.
MRS. CAROLINE EARLE WHITE DIES OF HEART DISEASE
Mrs. Caroline Earle White, one of Philadelphia's most active
workers "in nearly every branch of humanitarion and social uplift
work, died last nihgt of heart disease at her summer home at Nan
tucket, Hass.
RECALLED GUARS TO BE DEMOBILIZED
WASHINGTON, Sept. 7. The first step toward gradual wlthdrawul and mus
tering out1 of all militia troops on the Mexican border was thlcpn today, when Secre
tary of War Baker ordered nil militiamen so far withdrawn from the border to be
discharged from the Federal service. The militia organizations as noon as mus
tered out of the Federal service resume their Btotus as Stato troops and are ex
pected to be demobilized immediately by the State authorities.
AGED WIDOWS' PENSIONS TO BE $20 INSTEAD OF $12
WASHINGTON, Sept. 7. Widows of soldiers who served In the Mexican or
Civil Wars, the Indian wars or In the War of 1812 will received $20 monthly Instead
of $12 after reaching the age of 70, according to tho widows' pension bill passed by
the Senate today. It already had passed the House. Fees to pension agents are
limited to Jin.
PRESIDENT SIGNS GOVERNMENT SHIPPING BILL
WASHINGTON, Sept. 7. President Wilson today signed the Government
shipping hill. The President Is expected to appoint the shipping board within the
next month. Many recommendations have been made and many applications sub
mitted for membership.
NINETEEN SAVED WHEN "BRITISH SHIP IS SUNK
LONDON, Sept. 7, The British steamship Torrldge has been Bunk. Nineteen
of her crew were saved. (The Torrldge displaced C036 tons and Was 392 feet long.
She was registered at Cardiff.)
TEN GERMAN PLANES WRECKED IN BLAST
COPENHAGEN, Sept. 7. Ten aeroplanes wore destroyed in an explosion In a
Germn aircraft factory at Aldehof, near Berlin, according to Information received
here today,
WAR WILL END BY MARCH, SAYS WELLS
PATHS, Sept. 7. "Tho Germans will have begun to squeal by November, and
the ..war will end by March." This statement was made here today by JI, G, Wells,
the famous British writer, who has Just returned from the French arid Italian
fronts.
38,922 BRITISH OFFICERS LOST DURING WAR
LONDON, Sept 7. Casualty Jlsts for the first two weeks of Augusf show that
the British army lost 600 officers killed, 1702 wounded and 2H mlBstng, a total of
2506. This brings the losses since the beginning of the war to 88,922, officers, of
whom 1M have, been killed or died of wounds, 24,680 wounded and"2800 are miss
ing. In the fortnight six lieutenant colonels were killed
NIGHT
EXTRA
t
es,;
P11IOU3 ONJ33 CENT M
FORTUNES ARE
MADE IN 'DOPE'
BY SMUGGLERS
Narcotic Drugs Brought .
Into Citv in Coffins nnri U.
Auto Tires I
CAUSES RUIN OF GIRLS
Social Workers Reveal Workinea
-w ,
aF II7..UJ!..1.H f r. - -
ui oynuicaie in jjegraa
ing tho Young;
TUMULTY TO GET AN07L J, CAPITAL HEARS
WASHNQTON, Sept. 7, BeporU are current here that President Wilson has
decided to appoint his secretary, Joseph V, Tumulty, to arother Federal pesUlon
soon after the November elections. The position to be offered Tumulty Is said to be
either membership on the Board of Appraisers In New York or a Judgeship In the
District of Columbia, The lattrr Is a life Job at S10.000 a rear and regarded as
one of the best "plums" in the President's gift.
CANADA CONTRIBUTES 361,693 MEN TO ALLIES
OTTAWA. fU 7,Canada has 861,69 men. under arms. During AuiMt tHere
were 724S enlistments, as apOtMt 867S In July, 19,7 (H jUh ftftd 1M j j
CHARGBS AGAINST POLICE OFFICIALS DROPPED
Ciiarge of nelct t.f duty awUnst roHee CapUla f, 8, Kwiiiy, IJauUiuust
Joseph Van, Hnm, Ueutwuat (Uorw. Mtnr nnd Amine Detective CharWa Xm.
VMsrlmr swt nf tt sneetsxular TenferfaU raid nf July It, nave been wuMtmms
ny pireetar Wttnt. nnd Um trial t Um Men, t fpct4r, Mt heM
ARTICLE III
The vrrtrdlHit nrll.l,, .. ,,.. .............
SBVftllt nf thm Hfl.MtJ. .fatal. ..., ... r,,.i,
j ... V '''"-'', u.iij evil 17, X'llia
rtelpMa have dealt tcUh oenerol ejfeefs
" .no tmppimg oj me narnton rfrua act
bv court decUiont. Today', article die.
clotee the tcarkinpi of the "dope eysdlcafe
n tit Aujje and nraHous industry of tmug.
0. "jyo V the hundredweight Mo the
-" ' j',utr oemp jacimoiea ey trie
lack of comprehensive State leglelation,
alio reveal the degradation 'or lotmn
udtiien routed 6ji Ae working! of 'the
"dope eundlcate."
By IIENRY JAMES DUXTON
Until the State or National Government
has found means of cutting off the source of
eupply of the million-dollar "done avndl..
cate" there will be little chance of staniplnf
out the drug scourge In Philadelphia. In
colllns labeled "dead bodies," and In auto,
mobile tires, great quantities of morphine,
heroin and cocaine are smuggled oer the
Canadian nnd Mexican borders and on to
Philadelphia by the syndicate for Illicit dis
tribution nmoiis the 15,000 of drur "fiends
In this city.
Two or three hundred persons are en
saced directly and Indirectly In these smug.
Kllng plota, according to Joseph P Me
Devltt, a deputy Internal revenue collector.
The smugglers include business men of light
scruples who are not averse to making a
little "side money" while on trips to Canada
and Mexico j .Bailors, stewards and officers
on coastwise and transatlantic liners, and
even officers In the United States navy.
The heads of the syndicate are astute
students gf human nature, and by appeal,
lng to the cupidity of men and women the
syndicate has been able to build up a vast
smuggling system. The profits of the smug,
gllng game are big. Many of the partict.
ants, particularly since the beginning ot
the Iiuropean war. hive accumulated tidy
little "nest eggs." "The Ian breakers are
seldom apprehended, In recent niids Ih.
ternal revenue ofllcers of this city courts,
cated large quantities of nurcot'o drugs""
which hore the labels of reputable Phlla.
delphla manufacturers, according to United
States District Attorney Kane. At first
there was a suspicion that these men wire
turning large quantities of their goods into
Illicit channels. Out this was not the case.
A former Internal revenue officer said
that the syndicate had confederates In Lon
don and Paris. These confederates order
large quantities of narcotic, drugs from
Philadelphia. The drugs are. presumed t
be for wur hospitals. The shipments are
In the regular way placed aboard vessels
bound.for Europe, but officers and stewards
In the secret employ ot the syndicate
smuggle the "dope" back on the same ships
to Philadelphia.
The confederates on the other side pay
and sign a receipt for the shipments so that
a perfectly smooth and regular business
transaction Is furnished, and no suspicions
aroused on the part of the reputable whole
sale drug concerns of Philadelphia,
DOPE" IN COFFINS
Here Is another way the "dope syndicate"
obtains a large amount of properly labeled
Philadelphia goods. The syndicate ar
ranges with a confederate, say In Montreal.
to order 100 ounces of morphine from n
Philadelphia concern. The Philadelphia
house has no way of detecting the deceit,
and the concern has a legal right to make
the shipment to Canada.
The shipment Is made and .' properly"' '
recorded on the books of the Philadelphia'
house. The Montreal druggist paya for the
morphine and the stuff Is smuggled back
over the border to Philadelphia by a crafty
agent ot the "dope syndicate." It Is easy
to conceal morphine about the person, but
when the shipment is Urge, the co.Ttn, nu.
tomobllo tire or other subterfuge Is used.
Some of the coffins carry floral tributes
upon their lids and hey are handled with
care by unsuspecting station agents and
baggagemaiters along the route.
In suggesting a plan for keeping track ot
the labeled goods ot drug manufacturers
and wholesalers, Mr. Kane said) "I have
thought of suggesting t6 H-e Government
that each bottle of legitimate concern be
marked with a serial number. This -would
give us a handle by which we could trace
the goods and And out how they happen
to Btray Into illicit channel We are con
vinced that tho drug concerns are perfectly
honest and are not doing Illicit bwinM."
By the corruption ot siilppfc dorks n4
drivers for manufacturing and wholesale
drug concerns. Internal revenue oMoera any
that the "dope syndicate" is able to obtain
large quantities of labeted needs, Onnss
have been found In which drivers vpon r
celvlng a shipment for a efnM., nf tn
"dope nyndicau" In Canada did not take the
shipment to the r,re.g or t
all,., V instead earrled It t mm ot, tan at.
tlons of tn, vnnwme. to aaan -j
th'B ." ""' - "--- -. .
nti, up an nem to ssent in qnnasnv
Vhe iiwutswv. fn Tsnsip w vm-mmem
k n , t, t. mwS5
pan 09 I'M " T " w i
th-ai m stjinr InsJks'MnMi oner settrnw.,
at snnslir 'r ' DMsms '
at aansiersn f 'ruc-nnnAi(ntnnrtn nsa
tmmt ad whotasaie bounea onn steal n asm
tto dnn" each nay without Maj omttMmlt
Ons Sana l-eceniiy arrestra m iam 4-j, dM
han solintns am emaiuyar ir i
Mtngt. wm nm n
