THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 7, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVIX, NO. Ill
FRANK I CAMPAIGN
J2?
0
SHOWS AlSr?lWSE
French Drive Germans Further South of Somme River
GEI1S IRE FORCED 10 HE
OP POSITIONS ON SEIEHIL
7
7
NEW YORK FACES CAR STRIICE
SHI I I 0IB5 D
OFVIOLATION OF PRIVILEGE IH
-
THE HI
FRONTS
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
While their compatriots were busy Wednesday north of the Somme
warding off German counter attacks or engaged in artillery duels, the French
south of the river drove their men farther into the German lines for note
worthy q?ins. , ., , -ii
In stubborn fighting over a front of four miles between Vermandovillers
and Chilly the Germans have been forced to giVe up the northern portion ot
Vermandovillers; while trie rrencn rave occupied inc om"
way junction town of Chaulnes and thrown their forces alonq the railway
running from Chaulnes to Roice. between Chaulnes and Chilly.
To" the north the operations of the French wth Barleux and ultimately
Feronne as the objective, also met with success. Southeast of Belloy-En-Santerre
further German trenches wre captured and most of the village of
Borny-En-Santerre fell into French hands. Paris says the number of pris
oners taken apparently was large. ...
Berlin admits the Ioes of Clery which lies a. short distance northwest
of Peronne. .
In Galicia on the front of the Zlota Lipa and Dniester rivers, the Rus
sians have driven the Teutonic allies frcm fortified positions and have tak
en four thousand prisoners, among them about 2,000 Germans.
Violent fightinq continues around Brzezany, southeast of Lemberg, but
here Berlin says, the Russians suffered heavy losses and have made no ad
vance. Russian attacks near Zborow, northern Galicia, and in Volhynia,
also failed, according to Berlin. Fighting is still going on in the Carpatnian
where the Russians claim the capture of additional heights.
In the Rumanian theater German and Bulgarian troops are still en
qaged vith the Rumanians in the Debmdja region. Berlin reports the cap
ture of seven forts near Tutrakan works, tocether with their armored bat- .
teries. The Rumanians claim that they have retaken all the Dobrudja fron
tier east of the Danube between Bulaaria f.iH Rumania. The towns cf Is
lacx and Kalafat on the Danube have been bombarded by the Teutons.
The Russians in Turkish Armenia continue their progress against the
Turks near Ognott, inflicting heavy casualties on them, according to Pet
rograd. On the Macedonia front only bombardments are in pronress.
In Albania the Italian advance ha5 been stopped, says Berlin, and the
Teutonic allies have recaptured all portions taken from them recently east
of Av'ena.
British Statement ;
LONDON. Sept. 7. Last night's
pencral headquarters communication
reads:
"Severe fighting continues at
f'inchy. Fifty more prisoners were
brought In today. Nineteen machine
guns were captured or destroyed since
Sunday by the corps on our right
flank.
"A large party of enemy emerging on
Courcelette wan caught by our artil
lery today and scattered. Numerous
hostile working parties came under our
Bhell fire and were dispersed.
"The enemy's artillery was active
against portions of our front near
Thiepval. North of Areas and between
Labasse canal and Ilichebourg, we
carried out a successful bombardment.
"Yesterday our aeroplanes continued
their co-operation. One of our pa
trols consisting of four machines en
countered and drove off a hostile
patrol of thirteen machines. One of
our machines is mis.-iing."
A British official communication is
sued tonight says of operations on the
Macedonian front:
"On the Struma front, there have
lecn patrol encounters east of the
Struma between Orlak and the Kamar
Jan bridge.
"On the Docian front enemy artillery
shelled our positions for three hours."
The Danish steamship .Jeanne, of
117S tons gross has been sunk, accord
ing to a dispatch from Weymouth to
Lloyd's shipping agency. The captain
and crew of the vessel have been
'landed.
MRS. BARNES HELD
ON MURDER CHARGE
CHIl'AOO, Sept. G. Mrs. Iva
Raines was ordered held for the
Br;.nd jury without bail today on
a charge of murder by a jury at
the coroner's inquest over the
body of her husband, James K.
Barnes, whose suit for divorce
against his wife was to be tried
today. Mrs. Barnes told the police
she shot her husband because he
attempted to choke her.
I
n 1
EQUAL RIGHTS
FIERT WILL GO
ON WHANGED
Marshal von Hindenburg, chief of the
general staff, agreed that the military
situation was favorable. Confidence
was expressed in the success of the
new war loan.
Rumanians Repulse Attacks
BUCHAREST. Sept. . (Via Lon
don) Announcement of the capture
of prisoners and supplies and the re
pulse of attacks against their positions
was made In an official statement by
the Rumanian war office today.
Further French Gains
PARIS. Sept. 6. (Via London.)
Further French gains are reported in
the official statement issued by tne
war office tonight, these being entirely
south of the Somme, where the greater
part of the village of Berny was cap
tured, as well as the northern portion
of Vermandovillers.
The positions newly won by the
French south of the Somme, were at
tacked several times by the Germans
last night. Their assaults, the war of
fice announced today, were broken by
the French fire.
The German assaults were delivered
in the region of Denicourt and Berny.
In the Verdun sector, the Germans
yesterday evening directed an intense
bombardment against Fleury. but the
French quick-firers prevented the Ger
man infantry from advancing.
SUBWAY LINES
TO BE TIED UP
P-
I GONZALES SAVS STATE
i OF MORELOS PACIFIED
.
MEXICO CITY, Sept. I?. Gen-
eral Pablo Gonzales announced I
today that as his campaign for
! the pacification of the state of
j Morelos, a Zapata stronghold, had
I been completed and civil govern-
and municipal officers were firm-
ly established there he would go
I to t.'ucrnevaca tomorrow and wind
! up his official business and re
i turn to Mexico City, October, 1.
I I
n
Military Situation Favorable
.AMSTERDAM, (Via London) Sept.
6. A telegram received from Berlin
says that in view of the forthcoming
convention of the reichstag there was
hehl a conference between Chancellor
von Hollweg and the party leaders
The chancellor declared that Field
American Trade Regulation
WASHINGTON, Sept. 6. The atti
tude of the entente allies toward Amer
ican trade regulation would be deter
mined by the German and trade coun
cil of the ten belligerent governments
in Paris. In the meantime all informa
tion on the subject obtainable was
being forwarded to Paris.
F.xplaining the position of the state
department. Secretary Lansing said it
was not felt that the resources of diplo
(Continued on Page Two)
SIX
1
UP GOLOEN STATE LIMITED
' Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Sept. 6. The Golden
State Limited, the crack westboutn
train of the Cnicago. Kock Inland anl
Pacific railway, was held up
Aunche siding, forty miles east
Douglas, ut'out eight o'clock tonight
by six masked men. The robbers un
coupled the baggage and two mail
car nn1 forced the crew to run to
the county road biidge, three mileV
west of Apache, where they tried for
an hour to break into the express
afe, firing six charges of nitro gly
cerine before they gave up the at
tempt, and rode off to the north on
their cow ponies. No passengers were
molested.
Two of the robbers got on the traii
at Apache and as soon as it pulled
out dropped down Into the tender and
covering the engineer and fireman
with revolvers forced them to bring
the train to a stop and get down, on
the track. One of the robliers fired
over the shoulders of the fireman at
the , clerk who was Just closing; the
door of the mail car. The bullet went
wild and the clerk pot the door shut
and the car was not molested.
The baadits then uncoupled the first
three cars and forced the crew to run
down to the countv road bridge where
four of their confederates were Rath
ered around a camp fire. One of the
earig stood guard over the crew and
the other five attempted to break Into
the express car. finally getting two
- hoboes to break through the door with
tools taken from the engine. The
robbers evidently did not know that
the mossenfrer wa In the! diner as
Ihcv forcer! one of the hohneq to enter
the car ahead of them. That they
were rnn amateurs Is evidenced bv
the fact that It look them nearly an
hour to fire six shots, using up nearly
half a pint of explosive without forc
ing the door of the safe.
The bandits rode off in a north
erly direction after they found they
at could not. blow the safe. A sheriff's
of posse is already on their trail.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., Sept. 6
The National American Woman Suf
frage Association by an overwhelming
vole today decided to continue it;
present policy or working for eoua
rights through both national and state
legislation. The vote was taken aftei
a long debate and no sooner had the
applause that greeted the announce
ment or the action taken ceased, tnan
a resolution was presented which
threatens to again open the whole
question tomorrow.
Irtually all the speakers urged con
tinuance of the non-partisan efforts t
bring about equal surmise.
The question of continuing the pres
ent policy of the association came l
fore the convention in the form of p.v
proposed amendments to the organiza
tion s constitution. . - . ...
The amendments were defeated by
vole in wnicn no arnrmative voice;
were heard. Then Mrs. Carrie Chap
man Catt, president of the association
presented the following resolution
"That the forty-eighth annual con
vention of the association interpret
article 2 of the constitution whic
pledges our auxiliaries to secure tl;
vote for women by national and stat
constitution as meaning that the fed
eral amendment is our principal aim
and that all stale campaigns, whelhei
legislative or referendum, are prepar
atory to this end.
The resolution stirred up oppositin
among delegates and there was ev
dence of a stormy session.
Mrs. Catt opened the discussion of
the policy question and amused tht
delegation by stating tiiat Charles K.
Hughes, the republican presidential
nominee, had told her that the re
publican platform came nearer to
what the suffragists want than that
of the democrats and that on the oth
er hand President Wilson told her tht
democratic plutform was nearer to
woman suffrage than the republican
plutform.
She declared that both were far
ahead of their respective parties in
their views on the suffrage question.
Miss Florence Allen said that if state
work was taken up exclusively It woulo
look as if the suffravists had been
captured by the party that was strong
for state legislation.
The suffragettes, she said, should
ask the help of all men, regardless ol
their party affiliation.
Delegates from Colorado, Oregon
and Texas were among those who
spoke briefly in favor of continuing
the present policy. The delegate from
Texas said that when Mexican bandits
invaded Texas the people in that state
did not stand on state rights but
quickly called for federal aid.
Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, former
president of the association, said that
if she were to be horn again, she
would give the same amount of time
to the cause above everything else in
the world.
The non-partisan campaign for
equal rights the association has waged
for so many years, she said, had
brought the suffrage question to where
it Is today. Education rather than par
tisan political action she said, was the
best method to bring about universal
equal suffrage.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK, Sept. 6. A strike was
declared early tonight by unionized
employes of the subway and elevated
ines operated by the lnterboro Rapid
Transit company. Union officials as
serted that New York electric trans
portation facilities would be complete
ly paralyzed by morning. They were
:onfident that the motormen and con
ductors on the surface lines would
strike through sympathy.
Should the strikers succeed in their
purpose New York v.'HI face the worst
tie-up in us history. Thus far the
union has confined its demands to the
Interborough and its subsidiary surface
ear line, the New York Railways com
pany. Employes on the "Green Car"
line of the New York Hallways com
pany also voted to strike. This is one
of the most important of the city's sur
face car lines. The men acted through
sympathy for the suoway and elevated
railway employes.
The Interborough employes demand
an annulment of individual contracts
binding them not to seek wage in
creases for two years.
rive thousand patrolmen held in sta
tion houses in anticipation nf the strike
were pressed into service. Preliminary
details called for policing each subway
:ind elevated train and all Btation. In
the event of a strike on the surface car
lines, it was said, one patrolman would
be placed on each car.
Special squads of policemen and de
tectives will guard power houses and
ear barns, in many of which strike
breakers have been quartered.
Oscar S. Straus, chairman of the
public safety commission, requested
that the strike be held up pending an
other attempt by himself and Mayor
Mitchell to settle the trouble. The
labor leaders declined.
I nion leaders declare many workers
were discharged today because they
refused to take off their union badges.
Interborough car barns gave the ap
Iea ranee of barracks. Approximately
4.UUII men have been housed and fed in
preparation for the anticipated strike
order. Most of the men were hired by
strike-breaking ageiicres at the time
of the railroad emergency and were
taken over by the Interborough.
Subpoenas were served on officers
of the Interborough company by the
public service commission, which to
morrow will begin an investigation of
the causes that precipitated the strike.
Subpoenas also were issued for Wil
liam B. Fitzgerald and William Con
way, representing the union.
Trains were running as usual long
past midnight on subway and elevated
lines, despite reports at union head
quarters that many guards had unit
L'nion leaders declared these men had
been replaced by strike-breakers.
DISCUSSION 0
-
BORDER DP
HAS BEEN BEGUN
Shonts Is Beady
CHICAGO. Sept. 6. In response to a
telegram from Theodore P. Shonts.
president of the Interborough Rapid
Transit company, James T. Waddell
left tonight for New York in a special
train to take charge of the strike on
the subway and elevated lines. Mr.
Waddell has nearly 5.001) strike-break
ers ready to man the cars, he said.
Waddell. who has had chartre of sim
ilar work for a number of railways
and street car lines, said his men are
already in New York awaiting orders
to begin the operation of traffic on the
arlous lines affected by the strike.
The special train bearing Waddell
was made up in an hour and consisted
of five baggage cars and a sleeping car.
ine train lett the LaSalle street sta
tion of the New lork Central railroad
at 12:30 a. m., and was running on a
wenty-nour schedule to New York.
Discuss Means to Meet
Advance in Flour Prices
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. Sept. 6. Three proposi
tions to meet the advance In flour
prices with which bakers say they are
confronted were discussed, today at a
meeting of the executive committee of
the National Association of Master
Bakers. The prepositions are:
Confining brei.d production to the
10 cent loaf, of weight consistent with
present price cf finnr and wheat,
NEVADA IS ACCEPTED
about 21 ounces. Increase of price of
the 5 cent loaf to a profitable point, fi
or 7 cents Reduction of the weight
of the 5 cent loaf to a profitable
point, about 9 ounces.
According to members, the proposi
tions nre favored by the bakers In
the order In which they are stated.
It is expected action will be taken on
the proposals at the meeting to
morrow.
-o-
GENERAL STIBBS IS DEAD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Sept. 6. The su
perdreadnaught Nevada, commission
ed last March, has completed her final
acceptance trials and joined the At
lantic fleet on the southern drill
grounds for target practice. Admiral
Benson, chief of operations, said to
night he had every reason to believe
tlie test was satisfactory. Driven by
her oil burning engines, the Nevada
was required to make 19 knots for 20
hours and her maximum of 20.5 for
four hours. She has a tonnage of 27.-
IRepubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. Sept 6. General John
TI. Stibbs, the last surviving member
of the famed military court which
tried Jacob Wirtz. superintendent o:
the Andersonville prison, died here
early today. He was 76 years old.
ANOTHER GASOLINE REDUCTION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, ept. 6-Another re
duction of one cent a gallon in th;
price of gasoline, making the whole
sale price now twenty-two cents
Republican A. Leased Wire j
NEW LONDON, Conn., Sept. 6 The
formal opening today of the discussion
of the Mexican and American border
difficulty brought an exchange of cre
dentials, a general talk over the situ
ation and a recess until Friday to per
mit Luis Cabrera, head of the Mexican
party, to attend to private business in
Boston.
Secretary Lane was host to the party
in the afternoon aboard the yacht May
flower. As the yacht dropped anchor
on her return, the first opportunity was
given for full naval honors to be paid
the commissioners. The Mexican flag
was hoisted at the foremast, officers
in full dress stood at attention at the
gangway as the party left the ship.
The day s report of the conference
reads:
This morning's sessien lasted three
hours, during which Mr. Cabrera pre
sided.
"The first matter of importance was
the presenting of mutual credentials.
In accordance with the Mexican
form of opening conference, Mr. Ca
brera made a declaration of the pur
pose of the Mexican members of the
commission, saying it was their duty
to fulfull, in every way possible, the
great responsibility cast upon them by
First Chief Carranza and that they all
stood committed to giving their full
powers to bringing to conclusion this
conference in such a manner as would
be most profitable to Mexico and the
I nited States.
"After that, Mr. Cabrera stated that
it was the desire of the Mexican mem
hers of the commission that the fullest
information should be given to the
commission regarding all matters in
volved and that they were quite ready
to meet the Americans in a spirit of ut
most frankness.
The members of the commission
then exchanged views in general about
the situation in Mexico, and especially
on the border, with the view to making
a preparatory study of the subject.
During the conference the commission
ers reviewed the growth, control and
strength of the constitutional govern
ment which has become every day
stronger during the last two years and
particular since the recognition of
the constitutional de facto government.
showing that order was being estab-
ished throughout the republic, rail
road service being extended, etc."
The commissioners sent to Presi
dent "Wilson and to General Carranza
the following telegrm:
"The American and Mexican joint
commission in Adjusting itself to the
task assigned to it, desires to send
to your excellency the most cordial
greetings and to express the hope
hat its labors will be productive of
results satisfactory to both countries."
PERSHING BACK TO MEXICO
COLUMBUS. N. M., Sept. 6. Gen
er.il J. J. Pershing, commander of the
.merican punitive expedition, left to
day for his base in Mexico after an
nupection of all troops in his zone.
lietore his departure he reviewed the
aero squadron and quartermaster's
orps.
imilnti wna announced torinv bv th
500 and carries 10 fourteen-incu guns, standard Oil company.-
Two Vessels Are
Sunk and- Some
Americans Lost
Republican A. P. teased wire
WASHINGTON. Sept. G. Sinking of
two vessels in the European war zone
with American aboard was reported
to the plate department today. The
lepaitment will investigate both in
eidens. There is no information now
to indicate that either vessel was at
tacked illegally.
consul Mfuunn at Clasgow an
nounced that there were 28 Americans
on board the British steamer Keivinia
when she was sunk by a mine or tor
pedo September 2, while tyjund from
Newport News to Avonmouth and
Glasgow. All of the Americans,
muleteers, were rescued and now art
in Glnsgow.
Consul Hurst at Barcelona. Spain,
reported that two "presumable" Amer
icans, James Andrews and Lon Bruce
were among the crew of the Italian
sailing vessel Stella Delmare. which
was sunk by a submarine off the Bal
learic islands on August 2. The
message did not , stato whether the
crew was saved nor the address of
the supposed Americans.
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, Sept. 6. While the senate was
waiting today on the revenue bill conferees, the Owen cor
rupt practices bill was taken up and made the vehicle for
several hours of acrimonious political debate. Democrats
and republicans indulged in personal exchanges and re
galed their fellows with accounts of campaign contribu
tions and the rewards given some contributors.
The vote to take up the bill was 32 to 14, 9 republicans
voting with the majority, to consider the measure and
.seven democrats voting against it. Senator Owen, its au
thor, tonight cancelled a speaking engagement before the
Ohio democratic convention to remain here and fight for
its adoption. It probably will be taken up again before
noon tomorrow and the Oklahoma senator intends to keep
it before the senate until a vote is secured, or what is more
probable, adjournment is forced by the leaders. -
Senators Curtis of Kansas, republican, and Ashurst of
Arizona, democrat, furnished the excitement of the day's
debate in an interchange which looked for a few minutes
as if it might result in a personal encounter.
Ine bill would restrict campaign expenditures of can
didates for the senate, the house and presidency and vice
presidency to a greater extent than the existing law. Sen
ator Curtis argued that such a measure passed when a
: 1- . 1 1 i i r V
caiiipajgn is nan over lmgnt worK unt airly against men
who have already spent the stipulated amount. He advo
cated a more stringent law than that proposed and one that
wouiu particularly restrict the use of the congressional
irank to prevent senators or representatives from sending
out campaign appeals at government expense. He read a
ieuer rrom senator Ashurst to a constituent reciting his
record as a basis for support and said he understood that
70,000 of these had been franked out. in violation of th
privilege.
"If the senator charges that this is a violation of the
law," said Senator Ashurst, when he got the floor, "he has
sweetbreads for brains."
He explained that his letter had been submitted and
approved by the postmaster general and one of his assist
ants as being matter whieh could be franked and told how
former President Taft when in the Philippines and Secre
tary ot htate Koot exchanged cablegrams at 52 cents a
word paid by the government, to discuss Mr. Taft's health
and a horseback ride. Calling Senator Curtis the "Phari
see" from Kansas, he strode back across the center aisle
and shook his finger under Senator Curtis' nose. Senator
Smoot seated just between the two, moved back in mock
alarm as Senator Ashurst approached. Senator Curtis
smiled but kept his seat.
A little later Mr. Ashurst turned on Senator Penrose,
who said he had noticed a "copper lobby" around the eap
itol whose members had been talking with the Arizona
senator.
"If," said Mr. Ashurst, "the senator means to say
that my vote has been influenced by a copper lobby or
any other lobby, he lies."
Several senators objected to this language, and Sena
tor Ashurst explained he had said "if" and agreed to
withdraw his remark.
THE BREMEN IS COMING
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Sept. 6. It is reported
here that the German submarine mer
chantman Bremen may be expected at
an American port within ten days.
probably at New London, Conn.
Several senators told of large con
tributions to campaigns in various
states.
Two amendments to the bill were
proposed. One by Senator Brady to
postpone the effective date of the act
until January 1. 1917, two months
after election, was approved. The
other offered by Senator Jones, to
MAY RATIFY DAnlSH WEST INDIES
TREATYATPHESEMT SESSION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i committee should make a report and
WASHINGTON, Sept. 6. Adminis- tnat tne convention with the united
tration senators tonight had hope of
ratifying at this session of congress
the treaty to purchase the Danish West
Indies for 25,000,000. There were in
dications that more than two-thirds
of the senators favored the purchase.
A few senators, including Senators
Norris, Nelson and Thomas, said they
thought the price to be paid was too
high, Senator1 Nelson, however, said he
thought the price ought not to prevent
the purchase.
When the senate adjourned It was
with the understanding that another
executive session would be held tomor
row and a vote asked for.
States then should be submitted to a
plebiscite under the new constitution,
The proposals also provided that if
more than half are against It, the
United States shall be informed that
the convention cannot be ratified.
The proposals will be discussed to
morrow.
make it a fejony for any manufacturer
of intoxicating liquor to contribute to
a campaign fund, was not acted upon.
Prospects for adjournment of con
gress today went glimmering when the
house and senate conferees began in
formal discussions on the revenue
bill.
The conferees found some obstacles
which, it is hoped, will be smoothed out
tomorrow.
The house, meanwhile, put in itstime
hearing political speeches.
The senate, having, nothing else to
do, too) up the Owens corrupt prac
tices bill, but democratic leaders said
it had no chance of passage and would
be put aside whenever adjournment
could be secured.
Representative Mann, republican
leader, declared the senate amendment
taxing print paper above certain prices
would have a tendency to increase the
price and drive the industry to Canada.
He said, however, that an investiga
tion would doubtless show no justifi
cation, for raising the price.
The administration emergency rev
enue bill was called up at the outset of
(Continued on Page Four)
To Reconsider Sale
COPENHAGEN, Sept. 6. (Via Lon
don) Representatives of the four po
litical parties in the Danish parlia
ment met today and heard the oonser
vatives' proposals that simultaneously
with the formation of a coalition cab
inet, a committee of thirty members,
15 from each house, be appointed to
reconsider the sale of the Danish West
Indies to the United States. The con
servatives proposed further that the
Ripley Says Santa Fe Will
Await Court Order on Law
Republican A. P. Leased Wire "Congress, hastily acting under a
TOPEKA, Kas., Sept. 6. E. P. Rip
ley, president of the Santa Fe railway,
declared tonight in a formal statement
that the Santa Fe does not intend to
comply with the Adamson eight-hour
law, recently enacted by congress to
avert a threatened railroad strike until
ordered to do so by the United States
supreme court.
Mr. Ripley's statement follows:
threat of four leaders of labor organ
izations, enacted a so-called eight
hour law, which is nothing more nor
less than an advance of 20 to 25 per
cent in the wages of the best paid men
In railway service. It is only fair to
the public and to our employes to say
that the Atchison, Topeka and Santa
Fe railway company does not Intend to
comply with the law until ordered to
do so by the court of last resort"
