Tron gounty Register
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY.
M
iUBScaiPTios: -
One Year, ti.50. Six Monthi, o.7J.
SATES Of ADVERTISING
Furnished oil Application. Special Jn
ducements to Home Patrons.
Address Register, Ironton, Mo.
FromTexat.
Editor Register I am sending to
you a few lines that I would like (or
you to pat in the Register.
1 I joined the army Jane 23d, 1916,
and I have been in camp ever since
I have lived - several different kinds
. of lives and 1 have never found any
kind of a life that I liked better than
I like a soldier life'.
There ars about' fifty men in the
Company that I am in. I belong to
one of the happiest companies in the
Regiment, or in the camp.
I belong to Co. K. 1st. Kansas In
fantry. The Colonel says that the
1st Kansas Infantry is the best in the
United States. We get letters "from
all over the country giving ua com
plimeats on being so happy and jolly
on our march to -the border of
Mexico. I thjnk I will go across the
border before I go back to Kansas.
Well, I don't know much to write
this time. I will try to do better the
next ume 1 write.
Yours, truly, y
- Private, Habley S. Kemp,
Ang. 30, 1916. Eagle Pass, Texas,
- A "Progressive" Dinner.
At a dinner given by Congressman
McKinlev of Illinois in the City of
Washington to Chairman Wilcox, of
the National Republican Committee,
' the following were present: Senator
Penrose of Pennsylvania, Senator
Smoot of Utah, Senator Gallinger of
New Hampshire, Congressman Can
non of Illinois, Congressman Mann of
Illinois, Congressman Fordney of
Michigan and others.
During the gustatory proceedings a
very hearty telegram was vead from
Mr. Hnghes, regretting his inability
ttrattend. . :
The gentlemen participating were
.the very identical characters who four
years ago were so roundly denounced
by the Progressive party's leader as
"porch climbers" "malefactors,"
"burglars" and crooks." .Yet they
' are the mainstays of the. candidacy of
Mr. Hughes, who not only sits at the
same table with them politically but
t leans upon them in all matters per
taining to the direction of the cam-
, paign. Is it not a wonder that Fro
gressives are not enthusiastically and
, overwhelmingly lining up? . Perhaps,
however, on some future occasion
. there may be a dinner at which some
of their number may be invited to
sit. ,
Franklin Association Closed Saturday.
(The Desloge Sua.)
The 84th annual session of the
Franklin Baptist Association closed
Saturday afternoon after being in three
days' session at the Baptist Church at
.Lead wood. Tne meeting or the as
eociatien was a great one. Large
crowds attended both day and night
sessions. Prominent preachers from
all over the state were present and
took part in the discussions of the
various topics. . The Leadwood rolUs
certainly know how to entertain visit
ors, as many of the families cared for
as many as fifteen guests throughout
the three days and it seemed with all
ease. The next session will be held
with the Flat River Baptist Church.
State and Federal Laws Conflict.
The regulations just issued at Wash'
ington by Secretary Houston, of the
Department of Agriculture, des
ignates the open seasons for hunting
migratory Diras unaer tne new fed
eral migratory bird law, will not car
ry any good news for the .sportmen
of this section who have been aiding
in tne ngnt made against tne Federal
law to obtain spring scooting.
The new regulations designate the
open season in Missouri as opening
on September it and closing on De
cember 31. The same season applies
to Illinois, Kansas and Nebraska.
The Missouri game laws on duck,
geese and brant designate the open
season as extending from September
15 to April 31, in conflict with the
. Federal provisions.
. Under the biological survey regu
lations all insectivorous birds are pro
tected maenmteiy under tne secre
tary's order and protection until Sep
tember 1, 1918, is pjovided for band
tailed pigeons, cranes, wood ducks,
wans, curlew, upland plover and
smaller shore birds.
Open seasons for other water fowl,
coots, crallinules. lacksniDes. black
breasted and golden plover, greater
ana lesser yener legs, rails and wood
cocks are defined state by state. 1
Drink Sour Milk.
' Many people have a prejudice
against sour milk. Nevertheless dur
' ing the past few years it has come in--to
great popularity in the United
. States. This has been largely due to
the intluenoe of Professor Metchnikoff
of Pasteur Institute in Paris, whose
death was recently announced, says
Dr. M. P. Ravenel of the department
of preventive medicine of the Uni
versity of Missouri.
Metchnikoff made many studies on
the prolongation of life, and enme to
the conclusion that one great cause of
death was decomposition of food in
, the Intestinal tract and absorption of
. the poisonous products. It is a known
fact tht many nations of the world,
especially of Western Asia and East
j eru Europe, look npon sour milk as
an essential part of their daily diet.
Among the Bulgarians, who use sour
milk habitually, an unusual number
of very old people is found. Metchnik
off believed this was due to large
amount of sdur milk used and showed
that by Introducing the soifr milk
bicteria in milk the bacteria which is
found normally in ,the Intestinal
tract oould be driven out and replac
ed by those given.
Tablets containing tlio acid form
ing germ of soar milk dried In some
Inert medium are for sale on the
P. P. AKE, Publisher.
r State Historical Socy
V uLUMb L.
V
market, and have achieved a groat
success. They are 1 nsed now by
physicians largely in the treatment
disorders in infants.
Sour milk, whether buttermilk,
skimmed milk or whole milk, has
much to recommend it.
It is a nutritious and wholesome
diet for any time of the year, but it is
especially good during the summer
months. It often produces markedly
good effects in old people who suffer
from indigestion.
A Five years' Reeord.
A Test That Must Impress Register
Readers.
Five years is a long time.
A rigid test of merit.
Mrs. Mayes testified over five years
ago.
She now says the results were per
manent. Can Ironton ask for better evi
dence? Mrs. Frank Mayes, Ironton, gave
the following statement iu October,
1911: "Kidney and bladder complaint
came on me and I couldn't controt
the kidney action. I was unable to
stoop or lift on account of the pain
and bearing down feeling in my back.
I doctored and used different reme
dies, but the use of Doan's Kidney
Pills gave me much relief. This medi
cine has my highest endorsement."
A LASTING EFFECT.
On July 15, 1916, Mrs. Mayes said:
"The cure Doan's Kidney Pills made
for me haB been a lasting one. I have
had no return of kidney trouble."
50o, at all dealers. Foster-Milburn
Co., Mfgrs., Buffalo, N. Y.
For Sale Four dozen fine vear-old
Plymouth Hens, best Btock. Call at
IvuQIBTEB OUlCe.
You'll like it, too!
Just 5 cents a bottle M
carbonated less bythd
case. If you're not
in love with Grape
Smash, it's because
you're not ac
qualnted. So get
a bottle today-
now yea, im-'
mediatelv nnv '
store.
k tike
You'll M
11
IRONTON. MO.,
FOOTPRINTS ON THE SANDS OF
:avx
DR. J. L HICKMAN
State Deputy Veterinarian
Calls Attended All Hours,
Interstate Inspections Made.
BRUNOT, MO.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
Buun, in vauauiun, August iu iuid.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. P. Burnham,
collector of the revenue of Iron
county, Missouri,
against
M." L. Paggett, if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
m. u. f aggeto, it ne De dead, de
fendants. (Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and attjdavit, setting forth
among other things that the defendant,
M. L. Paggett,;if living; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
M. I. Paggett, if he be dead,
are non-residents of the state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot be served
with summons in said state: it is there
fore, ordered by the clerk of the cir
cuit court of Iron county, Missouri, .n
vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an ac
tion has been commenced against them
in the circuit court of said county, the
object and general nature of which is
to enforce the lien of the state ol Mis
souri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendants for back
taxes for the years 1913 and 19i4,to wit:
Lot 27 in block 66 of Murdock Crumb
Company's .subdivision of parts of
sections 29 and 32, township 34, north,
range 4 east: subject to mineral rescrva
tion made by Big Muddy Coal & Iron
company in book 53, page 21i, Iron
county Land Records. Tract 7 in
section 17, township 33, north, range 4
east, 20.71 acres,. as shown by Murdock
Crumb Co. Plat bogk 3, page 10; sub
ject to mineral reservation made by Big
Muddy Coal & Iron Company in book
53, page24r, Iron county Land Records
said real estate being in Iron county,
Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on
the said real estate for the years afore
said, amounting in the aggregate to
sum of five and 10-100 dollars, is filed
with said petition "as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at
next term of said court to be holden
for the county of Iron, and state of
Missouri, at the court house in said
county on the fourth Monday in Octo
ber next, 1916, and on or before the
third day thereof (if tho terra shall so
long continue; and, if not, then before
tho end of the term), and plead, answer
or demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered In accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment, in
terest and costs, be sold under a special
fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news,
papor published in said oounty of Iron,
and state of Missouri.
JESSE. M HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
, A true copy from the record:
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 10th day of Au.
gust, 19 16.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo,
I H u till
I
?: If, H BUM.
J VJ
OUR QOD.OUR COUNTRY AND TRUTH.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7. 1916.
TIME
(Elizabeth Evening Times!
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county
! Missouri. Uctober term. lUlb.
Sarah A. Loveil, L. C: Lovell, Will C,
Lovell and Lovina L. Keid, (nee
Lovell), riamtms,
vs.
Frederic B. Homes, Frederic B
Holmes, Fred B. Homes. F. B.
Homes, Giles Lee, Effle O. Sobieski,
It. A. Clarkson, Samuel A. Lee, Luci
us Kingsbury, Lucius Kingsburg,
James Whetstone, Ueorge Lewis, N.
Griffith, Catherine Griffith, Robert
Lewis, James Lewis, James Keen,
James W. Clark, F. M. Boas, Wil
liam Boas, Trustee, Elizabeth 1,
Clarlr. A. J. JNorwine, William U,
Randel, William C. Randell, John
Carrier, John Carver, Kate Lyons,
Wilson Corbett, Wilson Corbet,
James Snow, Samuel luiiock, b ted
erick Syler, Frederick Tyler, John
r . T. iidwards, m. J. ISdwaras, Ma
ria J. Edwards, William O. Edwards,
Daniel K. Gise, William H. Casteel,
Hum (J. Bray, J. W. Emerson,
James Marsh, and the unknown
heirs, consorts, devisees, donees,
alienees, and immediate, mesne, re
mote, voluntary and involuntary
grantees of Frederic B. Homes,
Frederic B. Holmes, Fred B.
Homes, F. B. Homes, Giles Lee, Ef-
lio C. Sobieski, R. A. Clarkson, Sam
uel A. Lee, Lucius Kingsbnry, Lucius
Kingsburg, Jnmes Whetstone.
George Lewis, N. Griffith, Catherine
Griffith, Robert Lewis, James Lewis,
James Keen, James W.Clark, F. M.
Boas, William Boas, Trustee, Eliza
beth T. Clark, A. J. Norwine, Wil
liam C. Itandel, William 0. Randel,
John Carrier, John Carver, Kate
Lyons, Wilson Corbet, Wilson Cor
bett, James Snow, Samuel Tullock,
Frederick 3yier, Frederick Tyler,
John F. T. Edwards, M. J. Edwards,
Maria J. Edwards, William O. Ed
wards, Duniel K. Gise, William H.
Casteel, Hugh G. Bray, J. W. Emer
son and James Marsh, Defendants.
(Action to Try Title.)-
The State of Missouri to all of the
above named Defendants Greeting:
You are hereby notified that the
above named plaintiffs have this day
niea wun tne undersigned, (Jlerk of
the Circuit Court of Iron Countv.Mis-
sour), iu vacation, their petition, duly
verified by the affidavit of John U.
Keith, their agent and attorney of rec
ord, whorein plaintiffs allege that the
defendants claim some title, estate or
interest in tne subject matter of said
petition, and in the land hereinafter
described, but that said plaintiffs can
not insert the names of the unknown
parties defendants in their said peti
tion because they are unknown to
tnem; in which said petition said
plaintffs further aver that the un
known defendants have obtained and
derived their claim to the real estate
hereinafter described from Frederic
B. Homes, Frederic B. Holmes, Fred
B. Homes, F. B. Homes, Giles Lee,
Effle C. Sobioski.R. A. ClarkBon, Sam
uel A. Lee, Lucius Kingsbury, Lucius
Kingsburg, James Whetstone, George
Lewis, N. Griffith, Catherine Griffith,
Robert Lewis, (lames Lewis, James
Keen, James W. Clark, F. M Boas,
vvuimm jioas, Trustee, .Elizabeth T.
Clark, A. J. Norwine, William O. Ran
dell, William O. Randel, John Carrier,
John Carver, Kate Lyons, Wilson
Corbet, WilBon Corbett, James Snow,
Samuel Tullock, Frederick Syler,
Frederick Tyler, John F. T. Edwards,
M. J. Edwards, Maria J. Edwards,
William O. Edwards, Daniel K. Gise,
William II. Casteel, Hugh G. Bray,
J. W . Emerson, James Marsh us heirs,
consorts, deviseos, donees, alienees
and immediate, mesne, remote, vol
untary and involuntary grantees of
the above named defeudants, and that
dp ?
said petition contains as' full, correct
and complete recital and descrip
tion of the claims of said defendants
and how said claimB are derived as the
same are kown to plaintiffs.
It is thereupon ordered by the un
dersigned, Clerk aforesaid, in vaca
tion, that the said defendants be no
tified that an action has been com
menced against them in the Circuit
Court of Iron County, Missouri, for the
purpose of trying, determining, set.
tling, defining andqnieting the title to
the following real estate in Iron
County, Missouri, to wit:
The south one half of section 29,
township 31, range 4 east: the south
west quarter of the southeast quarter;
and the southeast quarter of the south
west quarter of section 36, township
33, range 4 east; the southeast quarter
of the southwest quarter of section 8,
and the southeast quarter of the
south vvest quarter of section 24, town
ship 32, range 4 east; the northwest
quarter of the northwest quarter, and
south half of the northwest quarter of
section 17,'township 32, range 4 east;
the west half of section 34, township
31, range 3 east; the northwest quar
ter of the southwest quarter cf sec
tion 34, township 34, range 1 we6t; the
southeast quarter of the southwest
quarter of section 34, township 32,
range 3 east; the west half of the
southwest quarter of section 10, town
ship 34, range 2 west; the southwest
quarter of section 5, township 34,
range 1 west, and the southwest quar
ter of section 33, township 32, range
4 east;
And by which said action plaintiffs
seek to forever bar and preclude the
said defendants, and each of them,
from setting up any interest or claim
in or to said real estate adversely to
the said plaintiffs, and which said ac
tion is returnable and triable on the
first day of the next regular term of
this Court, to be holden at the .court
house in tha City of Ironton, Iron
County, Missouri, on the 23d day of
October, 1916, at which time and place
said defendants are required and com
manded to be and appear, and to
plead, answer or demur to plaintiffs'
said petition, othorwise the allegations
contained in said petition will be tak
en and considered as confessed and
judgment rendered according, to the
prayer thereof, forever barring and
precluding said defendants from here
after setting up any claim or title to
said real estate.
The Iron CoiiSty Register, pub
lished in Ironton, Iron County, Mis
souri, having been designated by the
plaintiffs and their attorney of record
as the newspaper most likely to give
notice to the defendants of the pen
dency of this action, it is further or
dered that a copy of this order be pub
lished in said Iron County Register,
once a week for and during four
weeks successively, the last insertion
of said order in said newspaper to be
at least thirty days before the first day
ut uio iiejLii regular lorui ut mis (juurb.
JESSE M. HAWKINS,
Clerk, of the Circuit Court.
STATE OF MISSOURI,
COUNTY OF IRON. )
I, Jesse M. Hawkins, Clerk of the
Circuit Court of the County of Iron
and State of Missouri, hereby certify
tnat tne foregoing is a true copy of
tne original order of publication as
the same appears of record in mv of
fice. Witness my hand and official
seal, this, the 26th day of .August,
ISEALJ 1916.
JESSE M. HAWKINS,
Clerk of the Circuit Court.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, m vacation, June 27, I9I6.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and to
the use of B. P. Burnham, collector of
the revenue of Iron county, Missouri,
against
John E. Love, James E. Reese and D. B.
needle, ana rrancis M. McKee, if liv
ing ; or the unknown consort, heirs and
devisees of Francis M. McKee, if he be
dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes )
Now at this day comes the plaintiff, B.
P. Burnham, collector of the revenue of
Iron county, Missouri, and files his petition
and affidavit, setting forth among other
things, that the defendant,
rrancis M. McKee,
is a non-resident of the state of Missouri,
and that he cannot be served with sum
mons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
, . Francis M. McKee,
has not been heard of for many years;
that plaintiff is not informed whether he
be living or dead; that if he be dead,
his heirs, or if he died leaving a will,
his devisees, are interested in the subject
matter of this petition; that the names of
such heirs or devisees, or both, cannot be
inserted herein because they are unknown
to plaintiff; that the said
John E. Love, James E. Reese, D. B.
lieedle and francis M. McKee,
were the record owners of the land describ
ed herein, but plaintiff has no information
except as herein stated of the nature of the
interest and estate in said land owned by
said
John E. Love, James E. Reese, D. B,
Ueedle and rrancis M. McKee,
and therefore is unable to particularly de
scribe the same, and that in the event of
the death of the said
Francis M. McKee,
his said heirs and devisees have, by
descent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
Francis M. Mckce,
from whom their interest in the property
herein described is derived. It is therefore,
ordered by the clerk of the circuit court of
Iron county, Missouri, in vacation that
publication be made notifying said defen
dants that an action has been commenced
against them in the circuit court of said
county, the object and general nature of
which is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendants for hack
taxes for the yean 1912, 1913, and 1U14,
to wit:
The west one-half of the northeast
quarter and the west one-half of the south
east quaiter of section 21, township 11,
north, of range 3 east, 160 acres said real
estate being in Iron county, Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature of
a tax bill showing the amount of taxes,
interest and costs now due on said real
estate for the years aforesaid, amounting in
the aggregate to the sum of twenty-three
and S5-ioo dollars, is filed with said
petition as provided bylaw.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term ot ad court to be holden for the
county of Iron, and state ol Missouri, at the
court house in said county on the fourth
Monday in October next, I 'J 1 6, and on or be-
TERMS (1.50 a-Ye.r la Advance.
NUMBER 14.
lore the third day thereof (if the term shall
so long continue; and, if not, then before
the end of the term), and plead answer or
demur to said plaintiB's petitton, the same
will be taken as confessed, judgment
rendered in accordance with the prayer oi
said petition, and said real estate, or so
much thereof an may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be
sold under a special fieri facias to be issued
thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof
be published according to law in the Iron
county Register, a weekly newspaper pub
lished in said county of Iron and state of
Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, (Jrcuit Cierk.
A true copy from the record:
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 27th day of June,
191b.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Urder of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county,
Missouri, in vacation, June 29, 1916.
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. P. Burnham,
collector of the revenue of Iron coun
ty, Missoun,
against
W. H. Shelby, if livincr; or the un
known consort, heirs and devisees of
W. H. Shelby, if he be dead, defend
ants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes. 1
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham. collector of the reyenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things, that the defendant,
W. H. Shelby,
is a non-resident of the state of Mis.
souri, and that he cannot be served
with summons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
W. H. Shelby,
has not been heard of for manv vears :
that plaintiff is not informed whether
he bo living ordead; that if he be
dead, his heirs, or if he died leaving
a will, his devisees, are interested in
the subject matter of this petition; that
the names of such heirs or devisees, or
both, cannot be inserted herein because
they are unknown to plaintiff; that the
said
W. H. Shelby,
was the record owner of the land
described herein, but plaintiff has no
information except as herein stated of
the nature of the interest and estate in
said land owned by said
W. H. Shelby,
and therefore is unable to particularly
describo the the same, and that in the
event of the death of the said
W. H. Shelby,
his said heirs and devisees have, by
descent or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
W. H. Shelby,
from whom their interest in the nron-
f-irty herein described is derived. It is
herefore, ordered by the clerk of the
cifsiitcourt esf Iran county, Missouri.-
in vacation, that publication be made
notilying said defendant that an ac
tion ha3 been commenced against them
in the circuit court of said county, the
ODjecc ana general nature of which is
to enforce tho lien of the state of Mis
souri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendant for back
taxes for the year 1914, to wit:
Lots 1 and 2 of the southwest quar
ter of section 30, township 34, north, of
range 2 east, 171.52 acres said real
estate being in Iron county, Missouri,
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on
said real estate for the year aforesaid,
amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of. five and 87-iOO dollars, is filed
with said petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for
the county of Iron, and state of Mis
souri, at the court house in said county
on the fourth Monday in October next,
19i6, and on or before the third day
thereof (i the term shall so long con
tinue; and, if not, then before the end
of the term), and plead, answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as mav be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
mieress anu oosn, De sola unaer a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a codv here
of be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news
paper published in said oounty of Iron,
and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy irom the record:
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 29th day of June,
1916.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, June 27, 1016.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and
to the use of 13. P. Burnham, collector of
the revenue of Iron county, Missouri,
against
William II. Wolff and Wilhelm Behren, if
living; or the unknown consort, heir and
devisees of Wilhelm Behren, if he be
dead, defendants, '
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff. B. P.
Burnham, collector of the revenue of Iron
county, Missouri, and files bis petition and
amdavit, setting forth among other things,
that the defendant,
Wilhelm Behren,
is a non-resident of the state of Missouri,
and that be cannot be served with sum
mons in said state.
Plaintiff states that the defendant,
Wilhelm Behren.
has not been heard of for many years;
mat plaintitt is not informed whether lie be
living ordead; that if he be dead, his
heirs, or if be died leaving a will, their
devisees, are interested in the subject
matter of this petition; that the names of
such heirs or devisees, or both, cannot be
Inserted herein because they are unknown
to plaintiff; that the said
Wilhelm Behren and William It. Wolff,
were the record owners of the land describ
ed herein, but plaintiff has no information
except as herein stated of the nature of the
interest and estate in laid land owned by
said
Wilhelm Behren and William H. Wolff.
and therefore is unable to particularly de
scribe the same, and that in the event of
ihe death of the said
' Wilhelm Behren,
his said heirs and devisees have, by de
scent' or devise, succeeded to the said
interest and estate of the said
Wilhem Behren,
from whom their interest in the property
JOB-WORK
Best equipped Job Print
ing establishment in this"
section of the State- We
insure satisfaction; prices
reasonable.
LTRY US.
herein described is derived. It is therefore,
ordered by the clerk of the circuit court of
Iron county, Missouri, in vacation, that
publication be made notifying said, defen
dants that an action has been commenced .
against them in the circuit court of said '
county, the object and general nature of
which is to enforce the lien of the state of i
Missouri on .the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendant for back
taxes for the years 19I3 and 1914, to wit: . ' ,
Lots one, two, seven and eight in block
32 in the town of Pilot Knob, Missouri, as , 'V .
the same appear on the plat of said town ' ' ,
of Pilot Knob, Mo., on file in the office of
the Recorder of Deeds for Iron county.
Mo., said real estate being in Iron county,
Missouri.
(An itemized statement in the nature of a (
tax bill showing the amount of taxes, inter
est and costs now due on said real estate for
the years aforesaid, amounting in the
aggregate to the sum of fourteen and 15-100
dollars, is filed with said petition as pro
vided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next terra of said court to be holden. for'the
county of Iron, and state of Missouri, at the
court bouse in said county on the fourth
Monday in October next, I916, and on or
before the third day thereof (if the term
shall so long continue; and, if not, then
before the end of the term), and plead,
answer or demur to said plaintiff's petition,
the same will be taken as confessed, judg- ,
ment rendered in accordance with the '.
prayer-of said petition, and said real estate, 1
or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be
sold under a special fieri facias to be issued
thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof be
published according to law in the Iron
County Register, a weekly newspaper
published in said county of Iron, and .state
of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record :
seal Witness my hand and official
seal, this 27th day of June,
1916,
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
1 Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the Circr.: Court of Iron Coui,.Missouri, in
vacation,. luue 2(5. 19113..
TUe State ot 5! igouri, at the relation and to the
use of B. P. liarnham, collector ot the ravettue
ot Iron county, Missouri,
against
Alexander H. Huengen and David Gorman, if
living; or the unknown consortp, heirs and
devisees ot Alexander H. Hueieen and David
Gorman, if they be dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff, B. P. Burn
ham, collector of the revenue of Iron county, Mis
souri, and files his petition and affidavit, setting
forth among otBer things, that the defendants,
Alexander H. HuesRen and David Gorman,
are non-residents of the state of Missouri, and that
they cannot be served with summons m said state.
Plaintiff states that tho defendants,
Alexander H. Huet-sen and David Gorman,
have not been hewd ot for many years ; that;
plaintiff if i-ot informed whether they be living or
dead; that if they be dead. 'their heirs, or it they
died leaving a will, their devisees, are interested
inrie subject m Titer 6f thif petition; that the
nanif. 'if sur-h hi -i-'i o- ilfn-ieees, or both, cannot
be it YU.-tI'itnieiii TiecauSe they are unknown to
plaintiff; that the said
Alexander H. Huesgen and David Gorman,
were the record owners of the land described
herein, but plaintiff has no information except as
herein stated of the nature of the interest and
estate In said land owned by said
Alexander H. Huesgen and David Gorman,
and therefore is unable to particularly describe
the same, and that in the event of the death of
the said
Alexander H. Huesgen and David Gorman,
their said heirs and devisees have by descent or
devise, succeeded to the said interest and estate
of the said
Alexander H, Huesgen and David Gorman,
from whom their interest iu the property herein
described is derived. It is therefore ordered by
the clerk of the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, that publication ho made
notifying said defendants that an action has been
commenced against them in the circuit oonrt of
said county, the object and general nature of
which is to enforce the lien of the state of Mis
souri, on the following real estate, belonging to
the said defendants for back taxes for the year
1H14. to wit;
The west one-half of the sonthwest quarter of
section 9. township 30, north, of range 3 east, 80)
acres said real estate being In Iron county, Mis
souri, (An Itemized statement in the nature ot a tax
bill showing the amount of taxes, interest and
costs now due on said real estate for the year
aforesaid, amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of three and 32-100 dollars, is filed with said pe
tition as provided by law. I
And unless they he and appear at the next term
of said court to bo holden for the county of Iron,
and State of Missouri, at the court honse in said
county on the fourth Monday in October next,
19 1 ti, and on or before the third day thereof (if
the term shall so long continue; and, if not, then
before the end of the term), and plead, answer, or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the same will be
taken as confessed, judgment rendered in accord
ance with the prayer of said netitou and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be neoesBary to
satisfy said judgment, interest and costs, be sold
under a special heri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy hereof be pub
lished according to law in the IRON COUNTY REG
ISTER, a weekly newspaper published iu said
county of Iron, and State of Missouri.
J IWSSK JM. HAWKINS, Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record:
Witness my hand and official seal this 20th day
of June, 191U.
(seal) JKSSEM. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron County. Mo,
Order of Publication.
In the circuli court ot Iron Oounty, Missouri,
IU Vttl-UllOU, AUgUHl 1U, JVIb.
The state of Missouri, at the relation and to
me use oi K. r. burnham, collector ol the
revenue ot Iron county, Missouri,
asaintU
JameB VV. Banna and William S. Worley, If
iivwk, or me unknown conBoris, neirsana
deviseos ot Jumps W. Hanna and William
S. Worley, It they be dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien tor Taxes.)
Now at this dny comes the plaintifl, B. P,
Burnham, collector of the revenue ot Iron
county, Missouri, and flies his petition and
altldavlt. Hotting forth among other things.
mat tne ueienuunit,
James W. Hanna and William 8. Worley, H
living, or the unknown consorts, heirs and
devinees ot James W. Hanna and William B.
worley. if tuny be dead.
are non-residents ot the state ot Missouri,
and that they cannot be served with sum
mons in said stale. It Is, therefore, order
ed by tho clerk ot the circuit court of
iron county, Missouri, in vacation, tnat
publication be made notifying said de
fendants that an action has been com
menced against them in the circuit court ot
said county, the object and general nature
ol which la to enforce the lien of the state
ot Missouri on the following real estate.
Deionging to me saiu aeiontiants lor duck
taxes tor tho years 112, M3 and Wit, to wit;
The north halt ot lot 2 ot tho southwest
quarter ol section 1H, township 31, north, ol
range 4 east said real estate being in Iron
county, Missouri.
(An Itemised statement tn the nature or a tax
bill showing tha- amount of taxea. interest and
cot,ts now due on said mat estate for the yoars
aforesaid, amounting in the aggregate to the sum
of eight and M 100 dollars, is Sled with said
petition as provldeu Dy law,!
And nnless thev be and anoear at the next tarm
of said eonrt to be holden for the eounty of Iron,
and state of Missouri, at the eourt house in aaiu
county on the fonrth Monday In October next,
1H1U, anil on or betorethe third day thereof (if
the term shall so longooutlnnet and, if nut. then
before the end of the term), and plead, answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the same will be
taken confessed, judgment rendered la ac
cordance with the prayer of said petition, and,
said real estate, or ao much thereof aa may be
necessary to satisfy laid judgment, Interest and
costs, be sold under a spcoial fiert facias to be
issueu tnereon,
It is tnrther ordered that a eopy hereof b
published according to law In the Iron County
Uegister a weekly newspaper published In said
eouuty of (rot), and state of Missouri.
iiftiM1, M, tiAwains, uirnutt uierx.
A true copy Irom the record!
8KAL Witness my hand and official seal, this
lUth dnv of August, 19K1.
JKShK M. UAWhlNM, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iruu county, Mo,
