Oregon Historical Society
Comp 207 Second St
Ash
"Ashland Grows While Uthla Flows'
City of Sunshine and Flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Uthla Springs
"Oregon's Famous Spa"
VOL. XLI
ASHLAND. OREGON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1916
NUMBER 31
land
Commercial Club
Holds Meeting
Monday evening the Commercial
Club met in their rooms at 8 o'clock.
The president being absent, M. C.
Reed was chosen as chairman. About
twenty were present. The secretary,
F. J. Shinn, read the minutes of the
club meeting for August 27 and the
minutes of several subsequent meet-
G.A.R. Encampment
Next Monday
Next Monday evening the Q. A. R.
will give a reception in the armory.
A drill will be given by the Coast
Artillery and several other good at
tractions will be staged.
During the afternoon and even
ing on Tuesday and Thursday a good
program will be given in the diall
ings of the trustees. These were jtauqua building. A large attendance
adopted as read. The secretary's is expected and the public is cordial
report showed a balance of $31.72 ly invited to attend and enjoy the
cash on hand. On motion the report I various features of this reunion,
was adopted. The bills as passed! which will close on the 15th.
by the trustees were allowed. Thej Tuesday is Ashland day, Wednes
resignations of Charles Robinson and j day, Medford day; Thursday, Cen
William H. Hosley as members werejtral Point day, and Friday, Grants
accepted. The applications of A. A. I Pass day.
Chlsholm, Carl H. Loveland and E. j
La Bell for membership were ac-Jfyr-Jf- J ni-i--
and these men elected as jivv wnj. iihivi
cepted
members of the club.
J. H. Dill reported for the com
mittee In charge of the entertain
ment of the San Francisco business
men recently visiting Ashland.
Supply Endangered
Medford's entire water system has
been jeopardized by the passage of
There were plenty of automobiles to the Oregon & California land grant
meet the party at Medford, firing bill by congress, according to City
them to Ashland and show them the Attorney McCabe. Some eight years
attractions here. This sort of ad-; ago the city took possession of a
vertlsing, Mr. Dill stated enthuslas-.tract of land near Little Butte and
tically, Is one of the best. W. E. there located the city Intake. For
Newcomb reported that $75 had mal application was never made for
been raised" by his committee to as-. the land and It is now being classi
slst the G. A. R. In meeting the ex-, (ed under the act. After classiflca
penses of their coming reunion. He tion it may be filed on the same as
expects to raise $50 more to make any other land under the grant, and
the required amount. A letter was a loss of $1,000,000 may be entailed
read from Mr. Sproule of the South- ( by the city unless a special act of
ern Pacific thanking the club for the congress can be secured to give title
friendly spirit in which a new depot to the land about the intake,
had been asked for. A communlca-j Immediately after the passage of
tion from G. A. Gardner, county the act, City Attorney McCabe wrote
clerk, stated that the road supervisor I to the secretary of the interior in re
had been instructed to cut thegard to the land. The communica
weeds along the Pacific Highway be-' tion was referred to Louis L. Sharp
tween Ashland and Medford, the 0f Portland. chief of the field di
matter having been brought to his , vision in the survey of the grant
attention by the club. An invitation J lands. His reply to Mr. McCabe in
was read from Walter B. Jones, sec-; part said.
retary of the Lane County Fair, in-1 "it may be that in order to get
vitlng Ashland people to attend the title to the land on which the intake
fair September 13, 14 and 15, - lis situated it will be necessary to
Several amendments to the by-j secure the passing of a special act
laws, as previously suggested and of congress. I have no doubt, how
read, were adopted. An amendment ever, that such action by congress
proposing the repeal of the $5 mejn-can be had with little difficulty."
bershlp fee was read for the first' Action must be taken by, the' city
time and Is to be acted on a month during the next session, according to
iater jcity Attorney McCabe, and to secure
F. H. Walker reported on the Bll- j this action It will probably be neces
lines hill road situation. Also sev-jsary for Mr. McCabe to appear be-
eral otheis sooke regarding past ne-fore congress.
gotiations and present conditions
relative to the proposed improve
ment through the elimination of the
grade crossing of the Pacific High
way over the railroad. The county
has 'completed the purchase of the
necessary additional right-of-way
and the various reports from the
COUmy court as w me presem aim-- i street Mr Herrn ,8 Bufferlng from
tion indicate that their work in this , a gevere 8tomach troubIe aIld laat
connection has Been finished forjweek Wednesday was very low.
some months and that now the only ( Later howeveri he rallie(1 and j8
matter delaying the improvement is abl(j t0 recognlze frlends and
the unsettled matter between G. F. make h,g wanU known
timings ana me oouinern rueu. , air. Herrin is In his 89th year and
Railroad as to. compensation, or has long been a man of great virility
elimination of the old crossing en-1 and endurance. He ls a Iarmer. aj.
tirely, or both. On motion the chair-1 h . d ,ndustrloUB and
John S. Benin,
Pioneer, 111 at Home
John S. Herrin, a pioneer of 1853,
lies ill at his borne, 343 North Main
man appointed a committee of three
to interview Mr. Billings and ascer
tain the facts of the matter and
hasten the completion of the very
much needed changes in the road.
F. H. Walker, J. H. Dill and W. D.
Hodgson were appointed on this com
mittee. On motion the club ad
journed. .
The following standing commit
tees were named for the club:
City Interests and Public Policy
J. W. McCoy, T. H. Simpson and J.
H. McGee. '"
Streets, Parks, Highways and Pub
lic Improvements F. H. Walker, W.
C. Mitchell and O. F. Carson.
Immigration, Location and In
formation M. C. Reed, A. A. Chls
holm and C. W. Banta.
Horticulture, Agriculture and For
estry C. B. Lamkln, J. H. Dill and
Benton Bowers.
Mines, Mining and Minerals F.
D. Wagner, C. B. Wolf and one oth
er. Industry and Manufactures W.
E. Newcomb, W. D. Hodgson and W.
S. Weaver.
House Committee H. G. Enders,
Jr., Clark Bush and H. O. Purucker.
A special membership committee
appointed consists of H." O. Froh
bach, A. C. Ninlnger and O. T. Ferg-
successful life, and for over thirty
years has been a prominent sheep
raiser of southern Oregon. He is a
splendid example of rugged Amerl
canjsm and until recently has en
joyed the best,- of health. Mr. Her
rin is a man 'kit great public spirit
and enterprise and his many friends
are hoping that by virrtie of his
strong constitution he will soon be
on his feet again. The latest news
from his home at noon today is that
he is not quite so well.
ner.
Portland shipyards have eleven
contracts for vessels, totalling $11,-235,000.
Astoria salmon canneries have ex
tended the open season to Septem-
fcer 10. j
Lynn Mowat at
Chetco Carnival
Lynn D. Mowat, city editor of the
.idlngs ard member of the Ashland
band, wrote as follows to his father
on a card from Crescent City last
Friday: "Great trip. Some coun
try. Four punctures. One spring
broke. Getting along fine. Lynn."
Much said in few words; autoists
can read between the lines. A num
ber of the band boys have returned,
but Lynn ls improving the opportun
ity to get a little vacation. A later
communication, written Tuesday,
stated that they were starting home
but did not know when they would
arrive.
The Southern Pacific Company
will erect new roundhouse and shops
at Eugene.
Bend has voted $35,000 bonds for
the California & Eastern rallroaa.
spectators.
Meeting called to order at 8
o'clock. Minutes of previous meet
ing read and approved.
Mrs. Wood appeared before the
council and presented a complaint
regarding a nuisance in the vicinity
of her home on High street. An old
cesspool and the Swingle cow barn
in use make an unbearable menace
In their present condition, she as
serted In a short, courteous and
definite talk. Later In the evening
the matter was taken up and re
ferred to the sanitary committee and
the city attorney for Investigation
and the taking of legal steps if nec
essary to remove the nuisance. Re
ports from Water Superintendent
Hosier, Street Commissioner Fraley,
City Electrician Strickland and of a
called meeting of the board of
health were read, approved and or
dered placed on file. The monthly
report of the springs water commis
sion was presented and filed.
The ciik-f of police recommended
the passige of two ordinances, one
requiring junk dealers to pay a
license and the other providing for
collection of garbage dally instead
of once a week. The first recom
mendation met with the disapproval
of several members of the rouncil
for various reasons and was placed
on file. The second was regarded as
a good measure, but instead of pass
ing an ordinance thought to be un
necessary, the matter was referred
to the Banltary commltte to make
arrangements with Mr. Graves, the
garbage grounds gatekeeper, for the
opening of the gate at convenient
hours for better service. ,
A communication from E.
Rasor asked damages in the sum of
$12.75 for expenses caused by the
overturning of his wagon on or near
Nevada street. After some discus
slon the city attorney requested that
the facts In the case be gathered by
a committee so that he could deter
mine the legal status of the claim
On motion of Lamb the matter was
referred to the street committee to
gather the facts and report to the
city attorney.
The realty and building commit
tee reported a proposition from W.
B. Holmes to purchase from the city
the triangular piece of land bounded
by the Boulevard, Iowa street and
the Weedon property for the sum
of $1,500 on terms of $100 down
and the balance payable In twelve
equal monthly installments with
per cent interest. The committee
recommended the sale of the proper
ty to Mr. Holmes on terms men
tloned, same to be conveyed free of
paving Incumbrance. On motion
unanimously carried, the city attor
ney was instructed to prepare the
necessary papers. i
A letter from the Western Union
Telegraph Company was read asking
for a contract giving them the prlv
liege to furnish the city with current
for the electric fire alarm system at
a cost of 45 cents' per month. Their
proposition was accepted and the
mayor and recorder were instructed
to execute the contract.
A request for 50 feet of -inch
hose for the fire department was al
lowed. During the evening Council
man Ashcraft stated that 200 feet
of old two-Inch pipe had been given
to Jack True to be used In piping
the water from a spring to a point
on the road leading from Ashland to
Lake of the Woods so that the water,
u'sually overlooked by travelers,
might be handy for the convenient
use of the general public.
A request was read from the resi
dents in the vicinity , of Eighth and
A streets asking that an electric
light be placed on that corner. The
mayor stated that another street
light on North Main between Skid
more and Mechanic streets had long
been needed. The matter of Instal
lation oi tnese two lights was re
ferred to the electric light commit
tee, by unanimous vote, with power
to act. A letter was read from
Bushong & Co. of Portland, present
ing the city with a small piece of
linoleum for use in the recorder's
office near the vault dor. E. R.
Hosier's request for ten days' leave
of absence was granted.
Bids were opened from three par-
City Council Proceedings
Postpone Calling Special Election
The city council held their regu-. ties making proposals to remodel the
lar meeting Tuesday evening with jail room In the city hall according
Mayor jonnson, louncumen aso-i 10 specincations. Frank Jordan 8
craft, Banta, Lamb, Ninlnger, Cor- bid was $247.60, Payne & Allen's
nellus and Recorder Gillette present, j $272.35, and E. F. Wolcott's $280.
Councilman C. W. Root was absent, j On motion of Cornelius, carried
There were also present a number unanimously, the contract for the
of the city employes and several work was awarded to Frank Jordan
whose bid was the lowest. The mat
ter was referred to the realty com
mittee and the city attorney to en
ter into a contract with the success
ful bidder.
At this point' the mayor called for
a vote on adjournment, but several
interruptions forestalled any such
action, inasmuch as a number of par
ties w hose Interests had not yet been
served had something to say.
On motion of Banta the street
commissioner was authorized to pro
cure wood for the use of hoboes at
their stopping place. On motion of
Banta Mr. Irwin was allowed a wa
ter tap for $2.15, actual cost.
On motion of Ashcraft the sum of
$860 was ordered transferred from
the electric light depreciation fund
temporarily for the purpose of pay
ing Mr. Irwin about $359 for curbs
and gutters on Granite street and to
provide $.100 for sundry needs of the
recorder The money for Irwin
from the proper source was not yet
available as the bonds have not been
sold.
The mayor brought up the matter
of co-operation with the residents
living' just outside the city limits
for the purpose of giving them some
fire protection with the city's fire
flghtlng equipment. The mayor also
brought up the matter of looking up
a damsite In the canyon and asked
the city engineer to report later on
feasible bites.
On motion, the local papers were
requested to publish the names of
the fjre committee and ask the peo
ple living adjacent to and outside
of the city limits to confer with this
comumiee ior tne purpose oi man
ing some satisfactory arrangement
for fire protection.
On motion, the city recorder was
authorized to have bonds printed
and advertise for bids to provide the
funds with which to pay for curb
and gutters on Granite street
The city attorney presented to the
council from the Commercial Club
committee the matter of calling a
special election to vote upon a char
ter amendment designed to combine
the springs water commission and
the park board, and requested that
the council pass a resolution calling
the special election. The attorney
stated that the Original draft of this
amendment had been gone over very
carefully by twelve men from the
Commercial Club, who had'glven the
matter considerable time and had
finally decided upon a draft of the
measure satisfactory to the entire
committee, that the committee felt
that in Its present form the amend
ment was probably as satisfactory as
any that could be agreed upon and
that they would be averse to any
changes inasmuch as the whole mat
ter had been thoroughly gone over
and threshed out. He stated that,
of course, it was entirely optional
with the council as to whether they
would call the special election, but
that if they did not see fit to do so
and the election should have to be
called by initiation some time would
be required and expense Incurred.
In response, the mayor stated that
none of the council members were
familiar with the present form of
the proposed amendment and that,
not having studied it over, they were
hardly in a position to pass upon the
matter at once. He suggested that
the members of the council be fur
nished with copies of the measure
and have until the next meeting toj
Inform themselves thoroughly as to!
Its contents. He further sthted that
he hoped the council would call tne
special election as requested, provid
ed the amendment was satisfactory
and contained no objectlonal pro
visions. Responding to the mayor,
the attorney stated that he had
three or four copies of the amend-
Modern Woodmen
In Lithia Park
In the middle of the day last Mon
day about sixty persons of the Mod
ern Woodmen and their families
Secretary Mather
On Crater Lake
The following item is clipped from
the Portland Evening Telegram of
the 2d, and will be of particular
gathered for a bounteous picnic din-1 Interest to Ashland people on ac-
ner in Lithia park.. They came from count of the mention of Crater Lako
Central Point, Medford, Talent and land Mr. Mather's visit to Ashland
shland and they brought with them J last Friday, when he went through
the spirit of good fellowship. There
was no program In connection with
the feast, but a good time was en
Joyed In calling up old memories and
In visiting back and forth among the
acquaintances from the various sec
tions of the valley. Unfortunately
no list of the names of those pres
ent is available for publication.
After setting the above the Tid
ings Is reliably Informed that by
actual count there were at least
present at this picnic.
84
Attractions at
The Viningj;
Tliui-sdiiy.
Lithia park and on up the canyon
as far as Long's cabin:
Speaking to a score of Portland
men at the Chamber of Commerce
at noon today Stephen T. Mather,
superintendent of national parks,
suggested Portland, Ashland, Med
ford and Klamath Falls raise 500,
000 for the development of Crater
Lfcke, and that the railroads then
sell tickets Including automobile
rides to the park.
"Shall we leave Crater Lake to
Oregon or shall we ask Callfornlans
to develop It?" he said. He said that
the proposed Mount Hood nark
ould "belittle the Idea of a national
park," as existing parks have not
j been developed. He told his hearers
to support the Parkhnrst hotel proj
ect at Crater Lake. Tacoma and Se
attle have raised $200,000 for the
of Rainier National
Bessie Barrlscale In "Not My Sis
ter," which also features William
Desmond. There are five in the caBt development
of this Triangle production, which I park, and a park service company Is
is a story wherein Grace Tvler. snendlne JTOO.onn In Ynaomito
played by Miss Barrlscale, helped
out the declining fortunes of her
family, when a young girl, by posing
for a sculptor, Michael Arnold,
whose part Is taken by Dsmond. The
artist falls in love with his subject
and various are the subsequent for
tunes of both.
Friday.
Geraldine Farrar In "Maria Rosa."
founded on a play of the same name
by Guldo Marburg and Wallace Gill-
patrlck, produced by Cecil B. De
Mille, appears Friday night. This
Is Miss Farrar's third Lasky play.
The otners are "Carmen" ana
"Temptation." During the making
of this picture a romance started
finally resulting In the marriage of
Miss Farrar to Lou Tellegen,
Rnturdny.
Dorothy Gish and Owen Moore ap
pear In "Susan Rocks the Boat," a
drama Triangle release of May 14.
The story is of a girl with too much
money, the circumstances of which
lead up to an odd romance. It is
said that no woman can fail to be
Interested .In the solution of the he
roine's problem, as presented by
Dorothy Gish. The cast Is composed
of eight characters directed by Paul
Powell.
Where to Leave
Exhibits for Fair
J. R. Plttenger, who ls in charge
of exhibits to be placed from Ash
land at the county fair and who un
dertook to call for all the exhibits
wherever they might be, reports that
It will be impossible for him to visit
every home and asks that all who
have exhibits of any kind will please
leave them at any grocery store in
the city and he will call for them
not later than noon on Monday, the
11th.
Outside Residents
Asked to Confer
People living outside of and adja
cent to the city limits of Ashland are
requested by the city council to con
fer with the fire committee, consist
ing of C. W. Banta, R. P. Cornelius
and C. W. Root, for the purpose of
arriving at some satisfactory ar
rangement to the end that these resi
dents may be supplied with fire pro
tection . '
Mr. Mather ls here on his way to
Glacier National park.
Ills position in Secretary Lane's
department In reality is that of su
perintendent of national parks, and
a visit to the parks of the Pacific
Coast is the purpose of his present
tour.
"I want to stir up a new Interest
In Crater Lake and show you people
what it means to your city to have
such an attraction as Crater Lake
within your state," said Mr. Mather
today. "A Portland man has the
hotel there and he should have the
backing and support of Portland."
Another thing In which Mr. Math
er Is vitally Interested Is the devel
opment of the park-to-park highway
system! in other words, a tying to
gether of the great scenic features
of the west by permanent roads, so
that the tourist of America will be
encouraged to spend his vacation
season In riding from one national
park to another, instead of swarming
to Europe every year and leaving
an aggregate of several millions of
dollars at the trans-Atlantic resorts.
"To my mind, the big scenio
things of the world are, first, the
Grand Canyon of the Colorado, then
Crater Lake and then the Matter
horn," said Robert Sterling Yard.
another Interior department man and"
a member of the Mather party. 'T
have heard that said, and now after
seeing Crater Lake myself I agree
with It."
E. O. McCormlck, vice-president of
the Southern Pacific, accompanied
the party to Crater Lake, but re
turned to San Francisco from Ash
land. John M. Scott, general pas
senger agent, met the party when it
came out from the lake and came
with It on Mr. McCormick's car "Sun
set" to Portland this morning.
New Depot Platform
Is Expected Soon
It Is reported that a new platform
will probably be built at the depot
this fall. No definite mention , is
ment and would gladly furnish them ! ma(le of the material to be used, but
to members of the council who might
desire to make a study of the ques
tion. Councilman Ninlnger said that
would be very glad to have a
copy.
After some further discussion as
to a nuisance on Ashland street and
Mrs. Wood's complaint, the council
adjourned.
it is likely that some sort of paving
material will be deemed most suit
able In preference to wood or concrete.
"The truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth" Is all right for
everybody but s newspaper reporter,
but the second requirement of the
old adage ls rendered impracticable
Jack True Finishes
Road Repairs
Jack True and wife arrived in
Ashland about noon from the scene
of his recent repair work on the road
In the vicinity of Lake of the Woods.
His crew of eight men and three
teams is on the way in but probably
will not reach town until tomorrow.
Mr. Trtio's work on the road is fin
ished for this season. He was on
the Job about 27 days. He worked
over a distance of about thirteen
miles taking out rocks and logs and
changing the road In a few places.
He cut a new road around a bad
piece of rocky road at the lower end
of Lake of the Woods. In one or
two other places he cut around rocky
hills. The work began at a point
about 27 miles, from Ashland and
the crew put up the forty-mile post.
It is understood that the road is
now open to Telican bay.
The presidential candidates have
finally been Informed of their nom
inations. If people generally were
as unconcerned as these men seem
to be about expected news of im
portance, there would be a whole lot
less worrying in the world.
When searching for an opportunity
It is well to remember that a mi-
Baker county, Oregon, Is building fr him on account of the present croscope is Just as reliable as a tele-
fifteen new steel bridges
price of paper.
scope and much less expensive.
