V1
THE WEATHER
Load shower* tonight and Friday.
THE DAILY TELEGRAM
EXCLUSIVE ASSOCIATED PRESS SERVICE BY PRIVATE WIRE
( THE CIRCULATION
I of the Telcpmm la more than donbl#
L
the net paid circulation ot the
other Clarksburg paper.
ESTABLISHED 1861. - ? CLARKSBURO. W. VA? THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7. lfllG. PRICE TWO CENTS
ELEVA TED TRAINS ARE STONED
MISSLES THROWN
FROM THE ROOFS
teserves Rush to Scenes of
Disorder and Chase Gangs
of Strikers Away.
FRACTION STRIKE SPREADS
'ublic Service Commission of
Mew York Starts Investi
gation of Strike.
NEW YORK. S^pt. 7.?A million
?r more residents of Now York left
?heir homes this morning, not know
ng whether they would ride or walk
:o work. The first, tost of the strike
railed last night by lenders of the el-j
Rvated and subway employes came
this morning.
When the workers of the city start,
pd for their places of employment the
Amalgamated Association of Street
and Electric Railway Employes,
which is conducting the strike had
been unable to tie up the subway and
elevated lines, but had succeeded in ,
crippling some of the most important
surface lines. With the aid of nearly'
8,000 and under police protection the
Interborough Rapid Transit Company,
was running its trains on subway and
elevated lines almost on normal
schedule. The strike has spread, how
ever, to the car men of the New York ;
Railways Company, which operates
ill but two of the important surface'
lines in the boroughs of Manhattan
md the Bronx. Lines in Brooklyn
!n the system of the Brooklyn Rapid
Transit Company are thus far at
peace.
Approximately 18,000 employes are
iffected. The immediate cause of the
?trike is the refusal of the Interbor-;
Dugh Company to release the men
'roin an agreeemnt to seek no further
improvement in working conditions
for a period of two years. Behind ,
;hese demands, however, is a contest<
over the unionization of the street!
;ar workers of the city among whom
:he Amalgamated Association has
sained a strong footing only during
.lie last few months.
Five thousand policemen were re- j
eased from patrol duty today and 1
made available for strike duty. Fori
;he protection of motormen heavy]
a*ire screens were nailed to the ex- j
posed sides of the car vestibules.
The public service commission has
started an investigation of the strike!
md subpoeaned the general manag-!
?r of the Interborough Company and!
officers of the men's union to appear;
before the commission.
Several instances of elevated trains!
being bombarded by stones and bot-1
ties thrown from the roofs were re
ported to the police shortly before
9 o'clock. Reserves rushed to the,
scene of the disorder, entered the
buildings and chased from the roofs
gangs of men said to have been car- j
rying missiles.
At 0 o'clock the Interborough re
ported that express and local trains'
were running on normal schedules on i
elevated and subway lines and with;
but few changes from the regular!
srewa.
Of Republican State Committee
on Short Visit to Southern
Part of the State.
Desiring first-hand information as
to the, political situation in the
southern end of the state, Joseph
Holt Gaines, chairman of the Repub-;
Slcan state committee, went Wed-j
nesdav evening to that section, and
it is safe to say that when he returns
to headquarters here he will be fully
informed as to how things stand in
the southern counties. He expects
to return here in a few days.
Mr. Gaines expects to meet with
Mveral county committees, and will
also talk with candidates for county
offices.
Asks the City Council iho Mod
ify the hecentiy Adopted
Milk Ordinance.
The executive committee of the
Clarksburg Milk Producer:; and Deal
ers Association W; inenday night
submitted .u the hcalLh committee
01 the . i;? r' u'jcJ an witlinc of cer
tain mouiiicallons the association de
sires in^-Je in the : ?? ally adopted
inilk oi.;i nun of ihv city.
The association want;-, it ho that
milk can be shipped into Clarksburg
averaging three and one-half per cent
butter fat with a specific gravity of
1,02? instead <>f four per cent.
It wants '.11 afcim milk bottles la
bour d ao that they will show skim
milk. It wants regulation of dairy
barn improvement. It does not de
sire to remove milk from the barn as
soon as milched. Dairy inspection
every sixty days is proposed. It asks
the council to make it unlawful for
milkmen to sell milk In one another's
bottles.
ROSSjlERAL
Services Will Be Held at 2
orCloc!< Friday Afternoon at
Pride's Chapel Church.
Funeral services over the body of
Mrs. Julia Uoss. aged 80 years, col
ored. better known to many residents
of the city as "Aunt Julia," who died
at her home in Ferry street Thursday
evening following a two years' ill
ness will be held at 2 o'clock Friday
afternoon at the Pride's Chapel
church.
"Aunt Julia" was horn on the old
Uoss farm near Bridgeport; hpr par
ents were slaves belonging to the
owner of the farm. She lived in this
county all her life. For a number of
years until 111 health compelled her
to stop she worked in different homes
of the city. As far as is known she
is the last survivor of her family.
FUNERAL SERVICES
For Father of Local Woman
Conducted Today from Home
in Cumberland, Md.
Funeral services for Hiram Alklre,
aged 99 years, father of Mrs. Fran
ces Alkire, of this city, were conduct
ed Thursday afternoon in Cumber
land. Md.. from the home of his
daughter, Mrs. A. J. Allen, where he
died Tuesday night of diseases inci
dent to old age. Interment was in
the Alkire cemetery near Alaska.
Mineral county, a short distance from
Cu mberland.
The deceased is survived by three
daughters. They are Mrs. Frances
Alkire, of this city; Mrs. George Win
ters. of Pittsburg; and Mrs. A. J.
Allen, of Cumberland, with whom he
made his home. He was a charter
member and trustee of the Calvary
Methodist church at Ridgeley, this
state.
SHOT BY BUIUSliAR.
ABBOCIATBO rmtvn
ATLANTA, Ga., Sept. 7.?C. D.
Wayne, superintendent of the South
eastern Passenger Association, was
shot and seriously wounded here
Thursday when, unarmed, he grap
pled with a burglar whom he dis
covered in his bedroom. He prob
ably will recover.
Dr. Loretta Rodibaugh, of Cuba,
N. Y., is a guest of her sister. Mrs.
Laurren C. Nale, on Duff street.
WILSON UTTERANCE
AMAZES DIPLOMATS
4? ?
Latin Americans Cannot Rec-j others who opposed the coup d'etat
oncile Speech with Conduct VT fl,an Mpx'c?-,
< r ? a Ur>\?r> Minister McMillan reported these
Ot lOrGICjn AlTSirS. I facts fully to Washington and assumed
I that this government would decline to
WASHINGTON, Sept. 7.?Latin I sanction the newly established regime.
American diplomats are amazed at the
statement in President Wilson's speech
of acceptance: "So long as the power
of recognition rests with me the gov
ernment of the United States will re
fuse to extend the hand of welcome
to any one who obtains power in a
sister republic by treachery and vio
lence."
This is the president's explanation
of his refusal to recognize Huerta and
of his Mexican policy. Yet the records
show that President Wilson has delib
erately violated this dictum in several
instances since the case of
arose.
The most flagrant example was the
president's recognition extended to
Col. Benavides, head of the revolution
ary government in Peru, in February,
3911. His government was founded on
assassination, established by assassina
tion and had no vestige of constitu
The case was identical with the Huerta
case in Mexico, except a much more
flagrant violation of the spirit of pop
ular government. Huerta had Madero
and Vice President Suarez imprisoned,
but he became president of Mexico
under provisions of the constitution
providing for the succession of the
minister of foreign affairs upon the
disability of the president. Huerta's
accession to the presidency was con
tinued by the Mexican Congress.
Benavides came Into power simply
by killing off those who opposed him.
Huerta) His acts had no basis whatever in the
constitution of the country and were
not confirmed by the Peruvian Con
gress. !His sole backing was a junta
of conspirators which forced their will
on the unapproving people by means
of ready rifle bullets. Under these
circumstances Minister McMillan
naturally assumed that President \Vil
tioual authority back of it. It came son would have nothing to do with
into power on February 4, 1914, when j Benavides and his Junta. The presi
Col. Benavides led the garrison troops j dent shortly before this had stated
against the national palace at Lima,
/ ?Jannod the minister of war and all (Continued on page 7.)
BATTERY OF CAMERAS TURNED ON MR. ANI) MRS. HUGHES IN PARK
Arrow point* to Judge and Mrs. Hughes.
Charles E. Hashes, the Republican candidate for president, rested several days at Estcg Parle, Colorado,
after his Iodk speaking tour of the west. Whenever he nnd his wife went abroad they were the target for
whole batteries of cameras. Photo shows Mr. and Mrs. Hughes posing for a score of una tear photographer!
jost before they resumed their journey eastward
HUGHES CLUB T0!
BE FORMED
Other Places in the County Will ;
Have Similar Organizations
in near Future. i
Work looking towards the organt-1
zation of Hughes clubs over the coun
ty has been started at Republican j
county headquarters by State Senator j
Hoy E. Parrlsh, chairman of the com-1
mittee. Application petitions are now
being printed and will be distributed
in a few days.
The largest club will, of course, be
in Clarksburg. Chairman Parrlsh
j said Thursday morning that he ex
pects the local organization to have i
at least 2,000 members within three'
{weeks after it is organized. Clubs
will also bo formed at Salem, Shlnns-I
ton, Lumberport. Bridgeport and!
other towns in the county.
The purpose of the clubs will be to |
work for the election of Hughei; and
Fairbanks to the presidency and vice;
presidency respectively, and also for
the election of the Republican state1
and county tickets. The clubs will
have regular meetings, at. which plans j
for the campaign will be discussed;
and it is probable that one or two
banquets will be giv^n.
It was also said at county head-1
quarters that the Young Mens' Re
publican Club, which did such good ,
work for the ticket in 1011, may be
reorganized. However, thi^ has not
yet been definitely decided upon. It
was said that the Hughes club to be I
formed here will be open to young
men and if they join it as expected
there will be no need for the reor-1
ganization of the old club.
* Will Morris and
: Jud Findley WW
? Race at the Fair
+ Arrangements wore completed Thursday for one of the screamingly
'J* funny features of Politicians' Day?September 14 - at the Central West
+ Virginia Pair to bo held hero next week.
+ 11 will be a mule race between Will Morris and Jud Findley!
* What do you know about that?
* Well, that's what it is going to be. Two of the best looking mules
?fr in Harrison county are to bo selected for this great contest of speed
* und endurance; and one will bo named Will Morris and the other Jud
Findley. the titles being take-offs on the Republican and Democratic
nominees for prosecuting attorney.
?2* The race will be called promptly at 3 o'clock Thursday afternoon,
+ September 14.
* A dozen other big features are promised for Politicians' Day at the
* fair, but in all of thorn strict neutrality between all political parties
* will be maintained and representatives of all will have equal chancos\
+ in each event or contest.
*
*+**+++++++++++++++++++++++++++4
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
BEING TRANSFERRED
WII.fi STOP AT BROWN.
Rosponding to the request of peo
plo In the vicinity of Brown on the
Short Line railroad, 8. C. Denham,
president of the Central West Vir
ginia Fair, which will hold its annual
exposition here next week, made ar
rangements Thursday to have tho
special train that will bo operated
over tlint line Wednesday, Septem
ber 13, stop at that station, both
going and returning.
Miss Mae Elsie, stenographer in the
prosecuting attorney's office, went to
Iter home at Terra Alia Wednesday
evening to spend a week's vacation. I
Tho United States lust year pro-'
duced 3.80S,152 short tons or sul
phuric acid.
FOUR. ARE GRANTED
PREACHER'S LICENSE
* .
By the Conference of the Unit-.R^aX to thB (?9trIct superI?.|
ed Brethren Church in Ses- 'tendents by the pastor* were sur
prises. Both superintendents are|
SiOn at Stealey HeiQhtS. well liked In their communities.
The Kev. J. M. (Knight preached i
IJcenseR to preach were pranted tn . (he annual conference sermon last
four persons by the annual conference; night, which was followed by the!
of the Church of the United Brethren annual communion service of the
In Christ at Thursday morning's ses-1 ministers and laity present. The Rev.1
sion of the conference, which is be-jjir. Knight's address was interest
ing held In the Duff Street United, |nRt antl he held h|a audiouce
Brethren church In Stealey Heights, throughout.
Thosa receivlnk the license were M. j Tomorrow s program will ho as'
O. Cross, of Junior; Lloyd Weaver, follows:
of Harrison county; .1. I.. Kelbaugh. Morning Session.
of Shlloh; and Alonzo Hunt. g;00?Publishing interests bv the'
The morning session was opened Rcv w R Funk_ ? D publishing
with devotional services conducted by agenti Dayton. O.. will give stereopti
the Rev. S. A. .lessee, of Wolf Sum- can exhi|,ltfi nt ,mbnsh|ng houEP.
mil. Routine business was then; 9;00-Conference business,
transacted, and an address on enu-i Afternoon
cation by Dr. Walter C. C llppenger. 1:30?Devotion, J. \\\ Ware, subject.!
president of Otterbein college at W es- ..Thc,mo of Corinthians, 13 chap
terville, O., followed. ; ter ?
The Rev. J. M. Knight was J"?-2:00?Conference business.
celved into the conference by trans-1 , \l?ht tiaulnn
fer from Knoxvdlle, Tenn._ The Rev. g: 30?Devotion, the Rev. J. O. Potts.
M. L. W eakley, of , enn J conference su,1Jcct' "Consecration Based on Ro
also received Into the conference chanter 19
from the Methodist Episcopal church., '
The first report was read Wednes-i
day afternoon by the Rev. F. G.1 iVlAIMY AnnlVt
Radabaugh, superintendent of the 1
Kast district, who read his report, j Today to Attend Annual Conference
iwhlch showed gains on a'l lines. At of United Brethren Church.
the conclusion of his report, the Rev. j
S. R. Ludwig, on behalf of the pas- j Among those who arrived In the
tors of the East district, presented j city Thursday 10 attend the annual
the Rev. Mr. Radabaugh with a valu- conference of the Church of the Unit
able traveling bag as a token of j ed Brethren in Christ, which Is being
their esteem. i held in the Duff Street chuich of the
The Rev. J. T. Foster, superln-, denomination were Dr. A. S. Hara
tendent of the West district, read rick, of Dayton, Va., superltnendent
his report, which revealed substan
tial increases In a.11 Important
branches of the work. As the Rev.
Mr. Foster finished his report, the
Rev. W. D. Herndon stepped forward
and on behalf of the ministers of
the West district presented the Rev.
Mr. Foster with a traveling bag
1 similar to the. one civen the Rev
of the Virginia conference; Dr. G. A.
Funkhousor, who Is connccted with
tho church's seminary at Dayton. O.;
W. D. Gluck, a prominent farmer of
Gluck: Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Weakley,
of Pennsboro; John Burnslde. of
Weston; Mrs. O. P. Upton, and Mr.
and Mrs. J. B. Ware, of Phlllppi; and
M. L. Weakley, of Pennsboro.
From the White House in
Washington to Asbury
Park, N. J., Now.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 7.?All ar
rangements were completed today
for the transfer of the oxecutlvo of
fices of tlio White House to Anbury
Park. N. J., tomorrow. For the first
time since Mr. Wilson became presi
dent a complete staff of stenog
raphers, clerks, telegraphers and
other attaches will accompany him
on his vacation.
Although President Wilson plans
to spend most of his time at Shadow ;
Lawn, the estate at Long Branch.
N. J., he will go to Asbury Park as|
much as necessary to visit the execu- j
tlvo offices and attend to public bus-1
in ess.
The president will receive many
of his political visitors at Shadow
Lawn, and the broad porch from
which he delivered his speech of ac
ceptance is expected to be the scene
of frequent receptions to delegations
of Democrats from many states. Be
cause of Mr. Wilson's decision to
make only a few political speeches
away from Shadow Lawn his cam
paign will be of the front porch va
riety.
Mr. Wilson plans to leave hero
Friday afternoon for Atlantic City,
where he will speak Friday before
the convention of the National
American Woman's Suffrage Asso
ciation. After spending the night at
a hotel there he will go by automo
bile to Shadow Lawn to remain until
September 20, when he goes to St.
Louis to speak at a convention of
underwriters.
On His Way from the West to
Campaign in the State
of Maine.
<?* ASSOCIATED Pff.i?>
BOSTON. Sept. 7.?Charles K.
Hughes, Republican nominee for
president, arrived here today for a
brief stop on his way to Maine.
Speeches are scheduled for today at
Hampton Beach and Portsmouth, N.
H., and at York Harbor. Me., with
nn address at Portland tonight. Mr.
Hughes will be In Maine on Friday
and Saturday, vlBltlng several cities.
He plans to return to Boston Sun
day. A brief stop was arranged for
this afternoon at Beverly, where
business was to be suspended while
the nominee speaks from the train
platform.
Mr. Hughes appeared refreshed
today after his long trip from Cin
cinnati.
Mrs. Edgar W. Davis Is here from
Harrisonburg, Va., visiting friends.
Isaac L. Davlsson, Wallace mer
chant and member of the county
court, li a city visitor.
GUARDS TO BE
MUSTERED OUT
Visit County Headquarters and
Report That Prospects for
Victory Are Bright.
Republicans from all over tho
county have responded In tho Invl-j
tatton of Chairman Parrlnh, of the (
county committee, to visit head-1
quarters, on the ninth floor of the
Cioff building, with the result that a|
lnr?e number of party workers are
dropping: In daPy to tell the chair
man of tho conditions In their locall- j
ties. "All report that the party Is j
In tine shape," snld Chairman Par-j
rlsh Thursday morning. "They nay
there Is no dtssafesion on the ticket ,
from top to bottom. Prospects for
a Ropubllcan victory are excellent."
Among those who called at county
headquarters Wednesday afternoon ,
and Thursday morning were S. S.
Stutter, of .Jnrvlsvllle; 1, L, Dnvlssou.j
of Wallace, member of the county ?
court; George \V. Sturm, of West i
Mllford. one of the Republican nomi
nees for the legislature, and John
Cork, of Davlsson's Hun.
'Mrs. Barth Miles, of Lee street, has
returned home from a two weeks' visit
with hor mother at Washington, Pa.
Hor daughter, Virginia, who spent tho
last two months with her grandmother
accompanied her home.
TOO MUCH MONEY
IN THE FORD PEACE
JUNKET, SAYS AKED
Rev. Charles F. Aked.
"There was too much money in the
Ford peace expedition," is the con*
elusion to which Rev. CharleB F,
Aked, one of the most prominent
figures in the movement "to get th?
boys out of the trenches by Christ
mas," has Anally arrived. "A multi
millionaire cannot bay peace," as
serts Rev. Aked.
Fifteen Thousand Returned
Home Are to Be Dropped
from Federal Service.
BORDER TROOPS REMAIN*
Where There is No Reason to
Hold Returned Men They
Will Go Out at Once.
? BY A??OCIATID mllll
WASHINGTON, Sept. 7.?The
IB.OOO guardsmen returned from the
border by tlio recent order of the
war department were today ordered
mustered out of the Federal service.
Tlx' guardsmen remaining on the
border ulay there for tho present.
Tho tumps affected are from No*
Vork, Ww Jersoy. .Maryland, Illinois,
MImoiuI, California. Oregn. Washing*
Inn mid Ixiulslana. Theso united com
prlHO In the aggregate about IS,000
national guardsmen.
The plan for the mustering out of
the regiments will be executed under
the varlouH departmental commanders
within whose Jurisdiction these organ
izations are placed. In many Instances
where there Is no reason to hold them
because of disease Infection the mus
tering out will bo done Immediately,
The Yale battery mobilized at Toby?
Itanna, Pu? was ordered to NianUc, Ct.,
where It will be mustered out,
PENSION BILL
Passed by Congress Will In*
crease Certain Class of Pen
sions to $20 a Month.
WASHINGTON,"sop""? .?A bill
giving to widows of olllcors of en
listed men who servod In the Civil
or Mexican war or the war of 1812
and who have reached the ago of
70 years pensions of $20 a month In
stead of the present $12 a month was
passed Thursday hy the Senate. It
llready has passed the House.
Widows of Civil war soldiers
dropped because of marriage of an
other person, are stored to the roll
by the hill.
The brief debate on the bill did;
not disclose tho additional coat to
the government.
PliAflUIC GROWS.
NEW yoUK^Sept? ""-The health
authorities Thursday reported anoth
er slight Increase In the Infantile
paralysis epidemic. Thero were sixty
one new enses, an increase of eight
ovor Wednesday and twenty-eight
deaths, a rise of six.
PITTSBURG) Tit A IN I,ATE.
Pittsburg train No. G2, due at the
local station at 8:30 o'clock Thurs
day morning, did not arrive until
I>: 15 o'clock. Delays all along the
lino caused the train to be late, ac
cording to Conductor Wirt Knapp.
Throwing baseballs at d&rky'*
head or at imitation cats for prizes
Is a game of skill, not chance, Su
preme Court Justice Tompkins ruled
at Nyafek, N. Y.
What is said to be a satisfactory
method for plating aluminum on Iron
has been Invented in France, > .
>-\i?
GAS EXPLOSION
VICTIMS DEAD
SCUTE INDIGESTION
Causes Death of Mrs. Sophia
Kasala at Her Home at
Perry Hollow.
Mrs. Sophia Kasala, aged 7] yearn,
died at 2 o'clock ThuiKday morning
at her homo on Old Hill, Perry Hol
low, following a short Illness of acute
indigestion. John Kasala, her hus
band, died several years ago.
Surviving relatives of tho deceased
woman are John Kasala, a son, with
whom she made hor home; Mrs. So
phia Florano, of Lyon Stop; Mrs.
Mary Hoe, of Mt. Clare, and Mrs. Ju
lia Marconllna. of Adamston, daugh
ters.
Mrs. Kasala had lived at Perry
Hollow for the last fifteen years and
leaves a large number of friends to
mourn her Iosb. She was a good kind
Christian woman and will be missed
by her friends.
++**+*++*++*??+
+
* TO SUE FOB FOED.
*
CO* ASSOCIATED I'RKIS)
+ DETROIT, Sept. 7.?It was
+ announced here Thursday that
+ Alfred Luckie, personal attor.
? ney for Henry Ford, the manu
+ facturer, la la Chicago to file
+ suit for 5500,000 in Mr. Ford's
+ name against the Chicago Trlb
+ une. Mr. Ford asks personal
+ damages as compensation for
? an editorial printed In the
? Tribune, which It is charged,
? calls Ford an "anarchist"
Oil Well Workers Burned at
Well near West MHford
Both Succumb.
George W. Cornell, aged 30 years,
a tool dresser, died at 6 o'clock and
Frunk M. Clausson, aged 45 years, a
driller, died at 7 o'clock Thursday
morning In St. Mary's hospital from
burns received at 7 o'clock Wednes
day morning, when a gas well which
they were working on on the High
land farm near West Mllford explod
ed and burned the rig to the ground.
Funeral services for Cornell will be
held at 1 o'clock Friday afternoomat
the Lynch-Osborn Undertaking Com
pany's chapel on West Main street.
The Rev. W. B. King, pastor of the
First Methodist Episcopal church,
will conduct the services and the
burial will be In a Bridgeport ceme
tery.
Surviving relatives of Mr. Cornell
are W. H. Cornell, his father; and
Mrs. John Thacker, of ChtUicofhe, O.,
and Mrs. George Myers, sisters. |5|
Mr. Cornell's death came as a shock
to his many friends and relatives as
It was not thought that he was so
seriously burned. He rested easy af
ter being brought to the hospital an,d
at an early hour Thursday morning it
was announced that his chances for
recovery were good. He began tfe
sink about daybreak and he died In a
few hours.
Clausson, wbo was burned worse
than Cornell, began to grow weaker
Wednesday night and was unconscious
for several hours before he died, al
though he lasted longer than his fello
workman.
Surviving relatives of the decease
man are Mrs. Carrie Clausson,J I
widow, and four daughters.
The funeral arrangements have i
been completed ye^j^K^ $'
