MR. MEUCHANT,,
An ad to The Eagle wlU bring buyer
end seller together, v
TMt WEATHZR
Tonight and Wdr, partly cloudy
In Tlclnlty of Bryan.
Tl
'a
S
Amkimi City d
AND PILOT
BRYAN, TEXAS, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1916.
Pi
Crisco
Is pare and wholesome
and keeps well in warm
weather. Y . .
FRESH STOCK
Hardy Newton
OFFICIAL FAMILY
PREPRES
TO MOVE
(By Associated Prase.) ' '
Washington, Sopt. 7. Arrange
ment! bare been completed for trans
ferring the executive offlcri from the
White Houie to Aebury Park, N. J.,
where the ataft executive!' office! and
cferki will be Installed near the
President when he takei fall summer
tome at Shadow Lawn Saturday.
151
ERED OUT OF
FEDERAL SERVICE
PIEER CATTLE
MEN
EH
Wei
111
IWEHTBYTHE RUSSIA
1 '
The Russians Are Slowly Overcoming the Ten-
tonic Forces That Oppose Them in Galicia
They Are Takinjg Town After Town and Get
ting Possession j of Railroads Rumanians
Have Evacuated a Fortified Town On the
Danube No Changes on Western Front
. Though Both British and French Claim Small
Gains. . i
London, Sept. 7 In attempting to
Second Annual Reunion of "Old
Time" Cattle Punchers Being
Held at Sweetwater.
(Ry Associated Prej)
flweetwatrr, Txaa, Sept. 7. The
lecond annual reunion of the pioneer
cattlemen of Weitern Texn, New
Mexico, Arizona and Oklahoma la be- and Chenole, and the French took 250
Ing beld In Sweetwater today and to- prisoners, the statement adds. It also
morrow. The first meeting of
regain poaaesslon of Louie Wood on
the Somme front' last night, tie Ger
mane were beaten back In hand to
hand fighting with the British, ac
cording to the British official an
nouncement . I
The French captured the German
first line trenches over one mile front
In the Verdun sector, Paris says.
The breach In .the .'German lines
was on the front northeast of Verdun
between the Vaux Chapltre region
FORD WILL SUE
CHICAGO
TRUE
YOU CAN FIIOrJE UQ
any order for groceries at any time and we'll see to it thit
you get what you order, at the best prices, and delivered
with extreme celerity.- We have undoubtedly the choicest
line of canned goods including pickles and preserves that
canning and preservmg factories produce. Have you tried
any? .
Reid Bros.
iWMev.jAiiyii iviv,', Mm n n fLK.
A BUiffly TEAM
DOES MUCH DM
Miss Lizzie Suber Is .Knocked From
Buggy and Severely Bruised. : -Horse
Had to Be Killed.
Will Ask Oamagea In Sum of $500,-
000 for Being Called an Anarch
1st by Chicago Paper.
(By Associated Press)
Yesterday afternoon late while Ed
Campbell, colored, was making a de
livery at the home of A, B. Ewing. on
ursullne avenue, for the E. F. Parks
FREE OL SERVICE
ft AT III
it ii. I
Chairman. John Aatln and Other
Members of the Committee
. Make Inspection Trip. .
The special committee, headed br
.Poetmaater John E. Aatln as chair.
man, from the Commercial Associa
tion, made an Inspection trip over the
Detroit, Mich, Sept 7. It waa an
nounced here today that Alfred Luck"
IU says a powerful effort was made by 'u J . . .
... .. . J ... - ,.kuruf """""aciurer, is in inicago lO
I file suit in Ford'! name for 1500.000
kind ever held in the United States the Germans to dislodge the French!
waa held here last September andifrom Hospital farm on the Somme
(personal damages against the Chicago
(By Associated Proas)
Washington, Sept. 7. The fifteen
thousand guardsmen returned from
the border by a recent war depart
ment order were mustered out of the
Fednral eervlce. The guardsmen re
maining on the border will stay there
for the present. '
The only exception to the order to
muster out the troops Is the Four-
teenth New York reilment which will A'
be kept In service st Its mobilisation
camp, pending the prevalence In that
regiment of para typhoid. When It
an be safely done, this regiment also
will be mustered out
r B ftttanilajl ttv mnrm than (wn turn- If PAIlL. hut 4A.M. II n 1 1 r 1 1 an.4 4h. .
"- I " " - " LTrlhnna fn - .H.I ...I-...! I-
dred old timers, those who were iden- Germans wars dispersed wlth heavy ' h. -1.1 k . V . ,.
.i.k .,.'1 . 1th" " n,ch- " ta charged, call-
" - " "u-"": u i"o 1 -.A r- I m Li..
w ruiu au auanuiBi.
states named prior to 183.
TOCK
EAST TEXAS FARMS!
The Ruaslana are bombarding Ha
licx. In Galicia, aixty mites southwest
of Lemberg, end the town Is In
flamts, according to ths Petrograd
statsment, which adds that the Rus-
Suit for a Million.
Chicago. Sept 7. A suit for one
1 million dollars by Henry Ford
aralnat that Chlnw TrJhitn . n j
elans have occupied the railway ines', .. . , V, . " "
t . , ,. ,f In the united States district court as
between Halics and HemlkoviU and - ... ,
..... . compensation for the editor calling
wodnikl. Ir. u .... h
anoint r siaiemeni says TurruKai, a I
... . .. , . :fortlfied Rumanian town on the Dan-!
General Conference Called by Mt'..k . . . ... I
t . ' .ube, has been evacuated by the Ru
Pleasant Chamber of Commerce .... ......, ..1 .. .
Being Held There Today.
THREE MET. TRAPPED
BY BURI6 OIL
(By Associated Press)
Mount Pleasant, Texas, Sept. 7. A
I general conference on the subject of
live stock on East Texas farms bai
been called by the Mount Pleasant
(Chamber of Commerce and ths Texas
Industrial Congress, and Is meeting
ifcere today. H. R. lierndon of the
Texas Industrial Congress explained
southeast of Bucharest
HELD
TRAIN
M IK TRAC
TS
PsiEfJ STRIKE
BUT COT MU
Elevated, Subway and Several Sur
face Lines Involved Cars Are
Still Running.
(By Aawdaiad Pras.t
Douglas, Arts, Sept 7. The
six
(By iaaodatad Praasl
New York, Sept 7. A strike was
Inaugurated on the subway and ele
vated and several surface lines of the
1
I
iFurnlture Company, the team which 'city this morning for the purpose of
u wu anving oecame .Tightened, selecting possible routes to recom
ran away and did considerable dam- mend to th lnmuwtnr frnn.
jage. The greatest damage was the ion who wUl likely rlslt this city ths
lujunoB receivea Dy wiss uxzie early part of next week.
Suber, who waa driving down the? It la tha bailor r m. 1..--
I 1 - w- mmw WWUIII.I.W
I street In the same dlrecUon the team tht the. Poatofflce department wffl
ran. ine team overtook her and eatahliah thro m.... t.
. , " ui LUO lO
smashld Into the fcuggr. throw In besin with and th .1
jher violenUy to the ground, Tery se- put of getting ss many people serveA
rlously Injuring her end breaking the with these routes as possible. The
buggy to pieces. The fact that she members or the committee report
was not killed Is almost a miracle. fcthat several minor matters will have
When the team hit her buggy the to have attention before the Inapee-
ur7 amifV7 wagon waa turned tor will recommend the establishment
jufur man iaw mrew tne scared team of any routes at all. Many sidewalks
and In falling one of the horses legs are going to have to be huflt Ths r
waa broken and later it had to e faming of the streets and the number
killed. Both the buggy and the do- Ins of the hnuiM and tha .i.
- - v.wfc.uB VI
"very wagon were demolished. street signs will play a blc nart and
The negro who was making the de- f 11 these matters are to come before
livery aaya he thinks that while he the city council at its regular meet
was In the house the team stenoed itnc tomorrow niriit
up a few steps to eat rrass alongside 1 iMembera of tha mmmiit
- j - - w.W.vVV IVnn
tie curb and a chair which waa on further that they are delighted with
the front end of the wagon fell over tthe co-operation they afe receivlng
on one of the horses and scared him, from the people In ths residence dls
causlng him to start running. 'trlct Many have signified a wUllna
Mrs. Jesse Hensarling, who waa cess to do anvthina- rnmun tr h.
sUndlng in her front yard, was a establishment of the tree mall serr
witness to the affair and did all In ,lce. Already quite a number of nlacea
(By Associated rreas.1
Fort Worth. Texas, Sept 7. Three
employes of the Texss Company were
probably fatally burned laat night
when oil flowing from a broken line
Ihav war tanatHnv fcarma ImKi
and sent burning oil down a ravine, too co-operation of other stale and
r
the purpose of the confereno, to the sa,,. who Ult nlght held up the lnlerborouf h m Tranait Comp,ny(
8tat. Auorl.Uon 0 County Jud,e,(CoId.n 8u UmiM th, Rock . only slightly
and County CommUslonfrs at Its 1.-4 nnM.4 ah miiaa a nt tiara. ...... . . f. r. .
.1 m 1 - . . . AW ," iwifa. union leaaers claimed 1.000
meeUnfln Greenville last month. The' beint trailed by a aheriffa posse .... .... v... . ... . " .
ederal tick eradlc.tbn service and or,.nU.d . th, hoIdup. jh. rob- .Mert only tm
the live stock sanitary commission WM , complete failure. After WM nMi,.n. -L... .v.v .j!
are interested In the movement and'.,, ,tt,mpli t0 bl0w the safe In the M ltri.ebre.kert. n. dJ
her power to get Miss Suber out of
the street but she could not under
stand Mrs. Hensarling, and when the
where sidewalks are - mlsslnc con
tracts for same have been let th.
work to begin at once, and many oth-
: Twelve men were forced to flee for federal agencies Is lovltel.
their lives. Seven escsped uninjured. ' e en e
VA five were csught Two were It costs Holland about 1.000.000
lightly burned. year to maintain lt dykes. '
express car ths robbers abandoned mMded abrogation of contracts which
uu w was ok sne nan only pulled to ers have said they would put th.
the aide a little and. was In the act of walks In. If everybody will get to
stopping to hear what Mrs. Hensar- gather and pulL the free mall service
ling wss saying when the craah.wlll come and will stay whs. It gets
csme. Mrs. Hensarling says she hare.
does not see how Miss Suber came
out alive.
the Job and eecaped on their ponies. Donnd smployes not to ask for a
wage Increase before two years. The
I I ..L . ... 1. - 1 . . .
iuiciuuruuKa omcisis announced that
men remaining loyal would receive
Eagle
.suits.
I
Want Adi always bring re-
Moon ByoSo Buggies
Are Life Time Buggies
BUGGIES THAT LAST A LONG TIME AFTER THE PRICE IS FORGOTTON. You
will soon need a NEW BUGGY; why not have It now?
The recent advance on buggies amounts to from $7.50 to $15.00 a buggy. Buy now
while we are In a position to sell at the old prices.
Fortunately we have contracts for several car loads placed before the advance.
We have now the best stock of buggies we have ever owned. Good styles in cheap
buggies as well as the MOON BROS, class.
We sell for cash or on terms until October 1st we will give 10 per cent discount
for CASH. We can guarantee this big cagh discount until October 1st only All facto
ries have another advance scheduled for that time. See our line, get our prices now!
Fo PABK & ;
fan
double pay.
COuCME A .
CLEAN BACK DOWJ
Miss 8uber was carried Immediate- Her back Is causing considerable pais
ly to her home and reports from there .and It is feared that a sever, wrench
today are to the effect that she Is to same will cause her considerable
hurt worse then wss at first thought trouble.
3
(Br Associated Preaal
Washington. Sept 7. The confe
rees on the emergency bill struck out
the amendment empowering th.
President to retaliate against clttxeni
of belligerent nations which Interfere
with United States malla, because It
would work a great hradshlp to Amer
ican! In foreign countries by counter
retaliation. They also abandoned the
amendment to prohibit th. admission
of Pacific ocean salmon or halibnt
through foreign countries except In
bound from an American port It
might develop a commercial war with
Canada and consequent retaliation. .
ICK CREAM SOCIAL.
The Christian Endeavor Socloty of
th. Free Baptist church will serve Ice
cream and rake on the lawn at the
Carnegie Library tonight Everybody
Is Invited.
Swltxerland In June and July had
the heaviest most continuous rain!
known for fifty years.
Complete In Every Detail
Furniture for the home from the Kitchen to the Parlor.
Medium to Highest quality. Prices doubly attractive.
h
The Famous Sealy Mattress.
"LIKE SLEEPING ON A CLOUD"
SOLD BY
IV. T. JAf.lCC, Furnituro
1'
4.'
