BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1916.
NUMBER 10.
AU. JMUW ftiiitUJiib VUlJ. UAlli.
Hi
icon
NEW LONDON
1 fl'l.unn llniiii W rvr
r t-4 t ... A.T 4....n
UNION STRIKE
TIES UP N.
Y.
SUB AND
"L"
LINES
III CnM AMU I'nUUAMft
.ill niiiy uiwii iiuiiiiuiafu
lll-uun nnu umiiiiiiii.ii
- mi a T 1 .
actory 10 isoin v,ounu ium
thdrawal of Troops rust
npratinn.
Strikers' Officials Certain That New York's Elec
trie Transportation Facilities Will Be Para
lyzed This Morning Sympathetic Strike of
All Surface Motormen and Conductors Ex
pected Interborough's President Defiant
and Says Company Will Fight Union to a
Finish Jitney and Water Service Will Help
Solve Transportation Problem 5,000 Police
men on Duty.
FRENCHMEN MAKE
NOTEWORTHY GAINS
SOUTH OF 811
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
.oncion, i ti.wi.,
ir RP.lnn, inrpeiy "i n n'mm-i
mlnnry rhor.n-t, r. 111.1 rlted the
pcnlng U-div "f the dlscus-
t ho rrlntlons In tween Jiicn
I'nltrd States b commissions
1 by enrh g voi nniont. Cre
wcro exchanged by the enm-
n general tall; over the
i jlfiPn mid particularly
o nrrnpr l ill m w i't . mi" in...
as taken until Friday to per-
Cnhrprn brad of tho Mexl-
y, tp fi"pnd to pprsnnui Muni
tion of views on cither the
1 .1-,1,l, Will
l'nH d! Ipnrr li liter.
fternonn nrnnrd th" preslden-
. I.. nnKi-nrn
r .t HV iivf. inii ii. .
lfent The yacht cruised for
or two In a leavy fog In Lone
ound, picking her way slowly
whistle to fog whistle. As
1 where the conferences are
r full nnval honors to be paid
commissioners. The Mexican
hoisted at the foremast, off!
Uli dress stoou ni aiiennon m
inillC idtljr tilt? li''hU" SlUlllfcC
h the commissioners aro cn-
ah. n ilia hnirt hllf. l
iRivniii s wnisno uiuyt'u liiuh
the ciremony.
ommissicners sent to President
and to General Carranza tho fol-
mprlcan nnrt Mexican 10int com'
In addressing Itself to the task
to It. desires to send to Your
uctlvo of results satisfactory to
keen Interest In tho alm
.rnnses or I'll' constitutionalist
Mexlro, us they nip learnrd from
Villul, i LnnnH Itnulu nf .nlitlinl
The Information thus gained, It
wav have mi lmvortnnt bearing
in n(pri nil UKI niimuin ,.1111.11 11111
"Iomith may loach Inter,
tb" subject of tho withdrawal
mullein such iih tho formulation
niiricol to cover future military
..... n null II... I. .....it... ml I I ... HU.
thu American comniiHslnnei s
if tbn i-bccss the AmeiinHii iiih.
hb In ilia bilualion mi tho border,
eporis iikvo unen prnpnien nj ma
nd war riflpartniants. TIib Maki-
r uaia mi me btio.Hi'i. urmiuHi
hern from Mexico City, It is
that another rcceks will ha taken
over tho week-end.
New York, Kept. 6. A strike was de-' nround, elevated and street car lines, has
clared at :30 o'clock to-night bv unionized I caused commercial nouses nnu corpora
. .,,. ,. ,,, ,., , . I Hons einploying hundreds nf employes to
employes of the subway and elevated , , . ' ,,lnt. ,hpm ,n
railway linos operated by the 'liter- atl(1 frm tllPr ptnccs nf business.
borough Hapld Transit company In this i With trafllc In the subway at a stand
city. About 1,C0 of the 11,700 cannon In , still, the hundreds of thousands who use
tho company's pay voted at a mass ' It dally will add to street tratllc conges
meetlnjr to tilt work Immediately. lion. Next to tho subway, the elevated
Officials of tho union nssortod that, railroad linos have been the most popular
with the possible exception of the lines method of travel.
In Ilrooklyu. Now York's electric trnns- I Owners of water craft to-nlRht planned
portatlon facilities would be completely ! to make regular trips nlnn tho North
paralyzed by mornliiK. Thoy woie con
fident, they said, that tho motormen and
conductors on the. surface lines In Man
hattan, Harlem and tho Hronx also
would strike throiiRh sympathy
and Kast river fronts picking up passen
Kors at the principal cross town sections
of the city.
Kmployps of tho "Oreon car" lino nf
the Now York Hallways company
ThPodnro P, Shouts, president nf the shortly after 11 o'clock to-nlpht also
Intorbnrouijh Ilapld Transit company, I voted to jo on strike at once.
declared that with adequate nolle pro- This Is ono of the most importnnt
teetlon the company would ho able to of tho siirfaco cur lines In the city,
copo sitci ossfully with the situation and ' The men acted through sympathy for
Force Germ.ms to Surrender
Strong Positions after Stub
born Fighting Over Four-Mile
Front.
TAKE MANY PRISONERS
Russians Drive Teutonic Allies
from Fortified Positions ir
Galicia and Take 4,r00 Pris
oners Hard Fighting in Rou
manian Theater.
"Kiiaiantoe transportation to the public."
lie said that only a small number of the
company's cmplyoyes had become
unionized.
As soon as the strike vote was an-1 tw" years was denied by
the subway and elevated lallway em
ployes, whose demand for an annul
ment of individual contracts blnrilnR
them not to seek wap;e increases for
the Inter-
nounced scouts were sent from the union horoui;h Rapid Transit compnny.
meeting place to notify crews on sub- SHItVJCH IS INTBnUUI'TKD.
way and elevated railway lines. The first Interruption In service oc-
Mr. Shouts Issued a statement half an currcd shortly before midnight on the
hour after the strike was declared, say- surface car lines of the New York
Ins that "All agreements would be de- Railways company, when motormen
ciared off" and that his company "would and conductors began turning in their
flpht the union to a finish." cars at tho barns.
Five thousand patrolmen who had Mr. Shunts, when Informed of tho
been held in station houses In antlcl- strike on tho surface car linos, de-
patlon of the strike were at onro dared that It was in direct violation
pressed into service. The prpllmlnnry of the agreement signed August 7,
details called for policing each subway which ended the former strike Involv-
and elevated train with throo mil- ing the Now York Railways company,
formed patiolmen and a llko number the Third Avenue Railway company
on stations. and other surface car lines In various
The entire police force, from mid- parts of the greater city,
night, It was announced, would wink William R. Fitzgerald, general or
on the three platoon system. Two pla- gnnizer of thp union, addressing em-
toons will do strike duty and ono ployos of the Interhoroiigh and Now
platoon regular police patrol. York Railways companies to-night
Should tho strikers succeed in their after the strike had been declared, ad
threats, more than 1 2.000 employes vised them "to keep out of trouble.'
will ho affected and New Yolk will Ho told them to go out and do their
face the worst tie-up of its transporta- picketing as peacefully as possible and
Hon llnps in Its history. Thus far tho not to make It "harder for tho police
union has confined Its demands to tho force than it Is."
Intorborough Rapid Transit company. Subpoenas have been served upon tho
and Its subsidiary surface car lino, tho nlllcers of the Intorborough Rapid Transit
Now York Railways company. Hut It company by the public service commis
was intimated to-night that tho strike slon, which to-nionow morning will be
might possibly be extended to other gln nil Investigation nf the causes which
companies, operating In the various precipitated the strike.
boroughs of tho gioator city. ' While strike bieakers wore being rash-
Owners of every description of vehicles ed to-night to all parts of the city to take
were In readiness to-night to stnrt a :ltney the places of the men who oult, ,tbe lat
service throughout the city as soon ns tho tor gathered In groups about the various
traveling public finds trafllc shut off. car barns. The strikers, however, were.
Realization of the Inconvenlenco result- said to have conducted themselves in an
Ing fiom Inadequate service on under- orderly manner.
BALLOONIST FALL;
MEETS HIS DEATH
AMERICANS ABOARD
TWO VESSELS SUNK
AT RUTLAND FAIR IN THE WAR ZONE
London. Sept. fi. While their com
patriots were busy Wednesday nnith of
the Somnie, mainly in warding off Cler
man counter attacks or engaged In
artillery duels, tile French south of th
river drove their men further Into the
Ooimaii lines and made additional note
worthy gains.
In stubborn lighting over a front of four
miles between Vermandnvlllers nnd
Chilly tho Germans havc been forced to
give up tlm northern portion of Ver
mandovillers; while the French have oc
cupied the outskirts of the railway June
Hon town nf Chaulnes nnd thrown their
forces along the railway running from
Chaulnes to Roye between Chaulnc-j and
Chilly.
To the north the operations by tho
French which have Rarleux, and ultl
mately reronne ns their objective, also
mot with success. Southeast of 1'elloy
en-Fanterre further fJornian trenches
were captured and tho greater portion
of tho village of Hemy-eii-Fanterr.' fell
Into tho hands of the French. During
the day's fighting, according to Purls,
the number of prisoners taken apparently
was large.
Ilerlln admits tho loss of tho town
of Cleiy, which lies a short distance
northwest nf I'oronno.
In Gallela on tho front of the Clota
I.lpa and Dniester rivers the Russlnns
have driven out tho Teutonic nllies
from fortified positions and taken
4,nf)0 prisoners, .".mong them about
2,000 Germans. Tlerlin concedes a vii
tory to the Russians in this region
loient iigiiting is still (jolng on
around Rrzezany, southenst of I.em
berg, hut heie Ilerlln says the Russian
have suffered heavy losses and mad
no advance. Similarly Russian attack
near Zborow. northern Gallela, and i .
Volhynla, failed, according to Tlerllu.
Fighting Is still going on In the Car
pathians, whore the Russians claim
tho capture of additional heights.
In the Itnumanlnn theatre the Ger
man nnd Bulgarian troops are still en
gaged with the Roumanians In the
Dobrudja region. Ilerlln reports tho
capture of seven of the Tutrakan
works, togpther with their armored
batteries. The Roumanians, on the
other hand, assert that they have re
taken all the Dobrudja frontier east
of the Danube between Bulgaria nnd
Rnumnnln. The towns of Islacx and
Kalnfat, on tile Danube, have boon
bombaided by the Teutonic nllies.
The Russians In Turkish Armenia
continue to make progress ngainst tho
Turks near Ognott, inflicting heavy cas
ualties on thim, nccoidlng to Pctro
grad. On the Macedonian front only bom
bardments are In progress.
In Albania tho Italian advance has
heon stopped, says Berlin, nnd the
Tentonii nllies have recaptured all the
pns'iions taken from them recently
cist in- Avlona.
ADDISON COUNTY
MIDDLEBURY.
Fred Blown hns: secured tho contract for
the hauling of tho 1'nlto.d States
between the local. " jfttttt0'."):
depot and , ' ?UeV0
little - Mr. n.nJ" ..mit are
parents of a - .urs. Agnes .;ttroll
ind daughter, who have been visiting
relatives and friends In town for 10 days,
bnvo loturned to their homo In North
Forrlsbiirg, Misses Maude, IMgerton,
Irene I.ockwood and l.lbblo Wnolfcy of
Brooklyn, N. Y., are riicsIh of Mr. and
Mis. Bralnnrd II. I.ane. Mrs. Howard
Austin was taken to the sanatorlcm at
Pltlsford Saturday to undergo ticat
ment. Sho was accompanied by her
husband. Miss May Ryan, who hap
spent two weeks at the home or Dr. nnu
Mrs P. 1.. Dorp', hn returned to Bur
lington. Mm. Leslie I.-iOro of Albany.
N', Y., nnd Miss Geneva Dixon of Troy,
N. Y., liao returned to their pomes
after a week's lsit at the home of Mr
anil Mrs. Wesley Murdoch. Mrs. .John
Frndett has returned to lirattleboro after
! in days' visit to her daughter, Mrs.
Arthur l'.lssett. Barry Williams has re
turned to Rutland after a few days at
the homo of Mrs. .1. K. Bllttolph Roy
Bullock and son, who havo been visit
ing at the home of his parents. Mi. nnd
Mrs. Charles Bullock, for a wool;, hat.
returned to Rutland. Mr. nnd Mrs
Thomas Curran and daughter of Rnn
dolph are in town on a visit. Miss l.lzzle
O'l.arey, for many yearn a teachci In
tho Mhldlebury public school anil now
3". cents and butter 20 to .10 cents.
Mrs. Nathan Blckford arrived homo
Saturday night from Philadelphia, hav
ing shortened her visit In that city
on nccount of tho threatened railroad
strike. If, G. Towers has returned
homo to Rutland after visiting friends
In town for a week. Mrs. William
Footo and hor mother, Mrs. Amelia
Gaines, havo returned nfter a. wcek'H
visit with relatives. In Vergennes and
tho latter will soon go back homo to
Holyoke, Mass. Walter McGuIrk nnd
Leonard Monahan are on an automo
hllo trip to Springfield, Ludlow and
other places In Hint part of tho State.
Carl ('. Forbes has letumed to Fair
Hivon after a. week In town. Morris
Monro of San Dlcgo, Cal., Is hero on a
visit to friends. Dr. V. F.. Denning,
who has boon visiting relatives and
friends in Mlddlebtiry and vicinity, has
started on his way hack homo to De
troit, Mich. Fred Fassott, chef at the
Hotel Lo;,'an, Is having n two weeks'
vacation, which ho will spend at var
ious places 111 this State. Henry M.
Melvlllo of New York city is here for
a two weeks' stay. Mr. and Mrs.
Georgo L. Ripley nnd their nephew,
James lllpley, of Cohous, N. Y aro
visiting In town for a week or 10 days.
The remains of Horace A. Crano wore
biought hero fiom Cile.ui. N. Y., whcie be
died August 2, and where tho funeral
services were hold. A delegation of 1'nlon
Lodge, No. 2, V. nnd A. M., attended tho
funeral In a body and performed the last
rites of the. order. The Rev. D. II. Cork
ran, pastor of tho Methodist Church of
this village, conducted tho fervlces at
the cemetery in Weyhridge, where the In-
SUFFRAGISTS VOTE
FOR NEUTRALITY
AS TO PRESIDENTS
Forty-Eighth Annual Convention
Also Decides to Continue Pres
ent Policy of Work for Equal
Rights.
MAY RECONSIDER "UESTION
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt,
President of the Nat. Women
Suffrage Association, Wants
Passage of Federal Amend
ment Principal Aim.
oi i.awrcii.e, .m.ijs., ,ms oven . iau- u.rmonl , mllo
Ing for a few weeks at the homo of Vr,L, iv-iintf n bmkomnn on through
freight No. 20, going south, was found
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Mc.Mahon has
returned to her home. William Farrell,
Sr., who has been confined to the house
for a few days with a broken bone In
ono nf his limbs, has so far recovered
as to be able to lie about the streets with
the aid of a cane. Mr. and Mrs. W. F
Sago and daughter, Miss F.dlth Allen who
have been at The Addison for a month,
have loturned to I'lshkill-on-the-lliidson.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Fuller nf Boston
anil Charles Rand of Sprlgfleld, Mass.,
ale guests of Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Tabor.
Miss Rena O'Bryan, a teacher In tho
schools at Northampton, Mass., who has
been spending her vacation In San Diego,
Cal., nnd other parts of the West, Is In
town to visit at the homo of Mr. and
Mrs. Ranson O'Bryan.
Work was started up again Monday
moinlng at tho local plant of the Ver
mont Marble company anil also at the
plant of the Mlddlebury Marble com
pany, after a shut-down of a week,
owing to the county fair, during which
time some needed repairs were made
at each plant. Mr. and Mrs. K. 'A.
Myrlck of Brldport and R. W. Hedges
of Bristol have returned to their homes
after visiting friends lu town for sev
eral days. Miss Susan K. Archibald,
librarian of tho Mlddlebury public lib
rary, has gone to Pittsford to visit the
Misses M. K. and K. L. Manloy. John
C. Wilson, who lm! been visiting In
town for 10 days, has returned to New
York city. Mrs. C. A. Barton has gone
to Leicester Junction to spend tho rest
of the week. Fred Howard has gon
to Randolph for a few days. Miss
Mary Halpin has gone to Brushton, N.
Y,, when; she has a position as teacher
In the public schools. Richard Black
has gone to Mnnslleld to Join his wife,
who has been there for a few weeks,
and will return to town this week and
will make this their home. Mrs An
na Sherwood of Fullorton, Cal., who
has been visiting her cousin, Mrs.
lames O. Howarth, for a week, has
gono to Montpoller to visit relatives
mil friends for a few da s. Mouihn ,
market day, eggs brought from .10 to
flTSf Til FifilF MBS
lhans. Rent. fi. Arilt-Gon T.oo
Latin i,l li im ' v rvnpnis rn
o-morrow nlcht for F.heHp T'nno
to visit the crimp of the First
nt Infantry. Ho will probably
homo In about a month. C.en-
lllotson says he cannot say what
uwiiiniiiii'n niv iui iii reiurn or
rmont guardsmen to their homo
i.,1) win hum linen rnnnwrnri
hev wolllH hp nrriorprl linmo .
u...v. .....jw. ... ... ,, niniin firm
Leroy A, Hall havo returned to
cdiicliii; iiwiii.- iii u in unv I mm
ate camp near Fort Ilthnn Allen.
they havo been since June.
Parachute Fails to Open and
Samuel A. Libby Is Instant
ly Killed in 500-Foot
Fall.
Fairfield, Malinger Itudnnil Venn,
... 1, .. an.t 1.. k ....
land, Kept. fi.--Whltcnmb B. Falr-
iiur.iii.-na iiimiiih' i ' lliw liuuunri
and son of tho publisher, Charles
irOnM ivnu married tills i.i'unlni.
priiiwn. i. mm.. 11111 unun iipimlt
nrpn I 1 .. ni'uutii. um null r in
of the young woman is an offl
K at tlio Moinouisi unurcn. juiss
me I H i;r off or una city, wno,
lie br do and groom, Is a graduate
ong tlm iiutland people nt tho
iuuy wt'iu .oi nnu .mip. . i-inl
and Mr and Mro, Paul V. Cool-
and Mrs. Whltoornb Fnlrlleld will
homo In tblrt city, at 1 KingMoy
ic, about i'it c v 1, ufur tump
Rutland, Sept. fi. Samuel A. Llbby
of Boston, aged 3R years, balloonist,
was Instantly killed this afternoon at
tho Rutland fair when ho cut away a
parachute too near tho frround and
struck tho earth violently before the.
safety device had a chance to open.
He wont up In his hot-air balloon
about 1,500 feet nnd had used threo of
the umbrella shaped devices success
fully In a graceful descent, when the
fourth parachute failed to check his
fall.
Mr. Llbby fell about K00 feet outside
of tho fairgrounds inclosure.
Hi was a single man. He belonged
to tho Loyal Order of Mooso. The re
mains were sent to Oakfleld, Me.
State Department Will Investi
gate Any Violation of Am
erican Rights in Either
Incident.
STATUTORYOFFENSE CHARGED
I'niir Men Held nt llinlllelioro Are Snlil
to lime Atlnckrd l.l-Venr-(lld
Ctrl.
CATTLE FED IN SWAMPS.
Stale l.uliiirnlory of Hygiene ItcpnrtN
('iiiisr of llcrlislilro UciithN.
St. Albans, Sept. r,.nr. J. C. Parker
has leeeivod from tho stato laboratory of
hygleno a report that tho canso of tho
recent deaths amoin; Derkshlro cattln
was the feeding of the cattle In swamps
nnd mrasliy land in tho pastures.
Ur. Parker is of tho opinion t lint four
heifers and n bull which were found
dead a fow ilnyH ngo on F. M. Wrlght'n
farm in Hast Knosbiirg died of tho same,
cause. Hp lias sent a specimen i,' the
serum from tho cattle to
Washington, Sept fi. Sinking of two
vessels In the Kuropean war zone with
Americana aboaid was reported to the
State department to-day by Amrlcan
consular officers. Tho state department
will investigate both incidents to deter
mine It American rights have been
violated. There Is no Informatlor now
at hand to Indicate that either vessel
was attacked Illegally.
A despatch fiom Consul McCunn nt
Glasgow announced that there wire :3
Americans on board the British strainer
Kelvinla when she was sunk by a mine
or torpedo September while bound
from Newport News to Avonmouth anil
Olasgnw. All of the Americans, muleteers,
were rescued and now ,ue In Glasgow.
Consul Hurst at Barcelona, Spain, re
ported that two "pi estimable" Ameri
cans, James Andiows and I.on Bruce,
woio among the crew of the Italian sail
ing vessel Stella Uelmare, which was
sunk by a submarine off tho Bal'earlc
Islands on August Jfl. Tho measngo did
not state whether the crew was nvod
nor give tho addresses of the two mem
bers believed to be American citizens.
GARAGE CO. INCORPORATES
laboratory as ho. did from tho Bcrkiihlrc
animals.
. A. Wright Concern nf St. .fnliiiNhiiry
linn cniiiiiii ur siii.diio.
Montpoller, Sept. . -The W. A. Wright
tho Klato f'tiniK", Inc., of St. Johusbury, has filed
n, XUtq .CJiamnlalji,
Finding a position in a soiling prob
lem of finding a huyor of what you nre
able to do, f!r p ing-prnblems aro nd-
vciti in;; problem. ,Aro you solvldc
JjiStiU4 Ja .AUU wail
articles of rorpoin'liin In tho olThn nt
tho Hcoiotnry of state, with a capital
stock of SlO.rtV). The home offlro will he
ill St. Johusbury, and a branch office
In Montpelier Tho subscribers aro W. A
Wright, St Johnshiiry. J 11, Mauley
Br.itllehoru, CI, W. Caldbeik, , p Lcacli
Brattlebnro, Sept. 6. Four men ware
arrested this afternoon charged with
statutory offense! against a 15-year-old
girl of West Bummorston. John-
Brooks, Harold Hennessey, nnd Georgo
Johnson waived examination and each
was held under $700 by Assnclnto Judge
R. J. Waterman of the municipal court
for his appearance at the September
term of the county court. L. W. Wat
erman, driver of a public automobile
pleaded not gulltv to tho charge Jind
was houn.l over until to-morrow morn
ing under $700 bonds for a hearing.
Th girl did not return to her home
Monday night after having gone for a
rido with three young men. two of
whom were Johnson and Brooks. She
was found this morning lu the com
pany of Hennessey. No charge has
been brought against her yet, but she
is In the custody of Sheriff C L. Mann
AUTO WENT INTO HROOK.
(IcciipiintN of "r cd by .1. v. Ke.
Ic KNoniic llnhj Itcxeueil.
St. Albans, Sept fi. Although the auto
mobile lu which Mr. and Mrs. J. P
Kelloy. son. Donald, and Miss Mary
Dclllgan f Swanton were coming from
Mm Sheldon fair overiuinen mis alter
noon when It collided with a car owned
nnd driven by J"1"1 Il'lsbaw, containing
a naiiv of vniniK men rm this city
going to the fnlr. i"'l '"to the brook
beside tile road, tn" uicinnerH oi ii'n pany
;.n,l n.;.rsbv land In tile pastures.
Tho Infant son f Mr. and Mrs. Kelloy
wont Into the water anil would have
drowned but for t" Prompt action of Its
When Rnshii' "l0t Knllpy'H enr the
latter was turnln "l" ""other auto
mobile nnd Rash!'"'. It Is said, cou'd not
stop In tlmo to nvn'd the colllsoi,. Ho
stopped and P"v( n"'""""-.. and the
i-n-.. m.nv were taken to Hwnnton by
,i passing automobile. Tho Kolluy cur
was badly, damas r -V
on tho tender of the engine when they
arrived at Beldens Tuesday with his
head badly bruised and cut. Tho train
camo on to tills village, and the m.ir. was
taken to the office of Dr. K. H. Martin,
where lie was cared for, and afterwards
takon on the same train to Rutland,
where his homo K It is thought that ho
was hit by an overpass near Vergennes.
-C. P. Klithorp ha gone on a visit
to relatives and fi lends In Rutland
nnd "Wnlllngford. Mrs. F. II. Hooker has
gono to Tlcondoroga, N Y., to spend
two weeks. Street Commissioner James
McGlInchoy with a gang of men havo
commenced to put in a piece of stone
road on Weybrldgo street. Dr. and Mrs.
L. A. Woods, who havo been making
a business visit In town for 10 days, have
started on their return home to I.elnnd,
S 1). Mrs. F. L. Cashner anil Miss
Stella Perry, who have been vMting
relatives at Fast Mlddlebury, hnve re
turned to Florence. Harry J. Morgan
of Burlington returned Tuesday after
threo weeks In Mlddlebury. Louis
Dumas has returned to Brldport after
1" dayH hem with the family nf his son,
Henry Dumas. William Bell of Oakland,
Cal., and Arthur C. Brunson of Snn Jose,
Cal., aro In town to spend some time.
W. K. Freyer of New York city has re
turned nfter staying two weeks in town.
Charles Swlnor and William H, Swlnor
of Iriwell, Mass, nie visiting In Middle
bury and vicinity. George Loomls, who
has spent two weeks in Mlddloburv and
neighboring towns, hns letumed to
Forestdnle. Mr. and Mrs Robert F.nston
hnve gono to Putnam, N. Y., to visit
relatives for a few days. Mr. Kaston,
carrier of mall on inuto No. " going out
of this village, is taking his annual vaca
tion. Mr. and Mrs. Horace Ferris havo
returned from a month's visit to rela
tives In FItchhurg, Mass Miss Mablo
Bellinger, who lias been visiting at the
homo of Mr. and Mrs. Frank LaPnn for
two weeks, has roturned to Boton. Ira
Hamblin has Just shipped to parties In
fCuntlnneil on pngr two.)
SILLER LOWES ICONN. REPUBLICANS
AND HIGHER PRICES RENOMINATE GOV.
SAY IRE BAKERS MARGUS H. HOLGOMB
Three Propositions to Meet the
Advance in Flour Prices Dis
cussed by Master Bak
ers at Chicago.
Chicago, Sept. P. Three, propositions
to meet the advance In flour prices with
which bakers say they aro confronted
weic discussed nt a meeting of the eecu-
tlve committee of the National Associa
tion of Master Bakers. The proposition.'!
ate:
Confining bread production to the 10 cent
loaf, of weight consistent with present
price of flour and wheat, about 21 ounces.
Increase of price of the five cent loaf t
a piolltahle point, six or seven rents.
Reduction of ihe weight of the five cent
loaf to a profltablo point, about nine
ounces.
According to members of tho committee,
the pioposltlons are favored by the bak
ers lu the onfer In which thev nre stntod
It is expected action will be tnken on the
proposals at the meeting to-morrow ot
tlio executive committee, nnd also on a
lesolutlon submitted to-day asking Con
gress to plncn all ombnigo on wheat.
Nomination Comes with Dn-v
matic Suddenness after Day
of Tedious Roll Call of
the 581 Delegates.
PLAN CAMPAIGN.
f 'I ill inn ill m Committee in ItnUe .Money
fur I'ciinIoiik for .MethodUt Clergy,
Mouticllcr, Hept C The conference
claimants committee of tho Methodhi
Chinch, which was appointed last spring
at thn conference session, mot In Trinity
Church vestcidav laid plans for the com
ing campaign to rnl.'o money for the pen
sioning of retired preachers ot the church.
It is planned to do this by district" Most
of tho committee were pretent Including
Frank Plumley of Northlleld nnd (!. A
Morse of Jeffersonvlllo, ns woll as so
oral of the ministers who aro on the com
ralttee.
New Haven, Conn., Sept. . Gover
nor Marcus H, Holcomb cf Fouthlngton
a retired Judge of the superior court,
was renominated for governor nt the
republican Stnto convention late to
day, defeating four other candidates
after tlve roll calls.
There wpre no other contests, the re
mainder of the ticket being nominated
by acclamation. Georgo P. McLean
was nominated for V. S. senator
Tho rrnomlnatlnn of Governor Hoi
comb came with dramatic suddenness,
after a day of tedious roll calls of the
SSI delegates. Tho fourth roll call had
stoo.l: Frank 1. Healy, Windsor Locks,
1!M, Holcomb, 1SS; ex-Lleutenant-Gov-
crnor Dennis A Blakosloy, New llavon,
llifi: Lieutenant-Governor C. B. Wilson
Ilridcenort. fifi. Comptroller Webster
had received scattering votes in pre
vious ballots.
On the next roll call the Bridgeport
delegation which had voted solidly for
Wilson, swung to Holcomb amid cheers
iiml then New llavon. which had sup
ported Healy, also voted for Holcomb.
other delegations in quick succession
voted for the governor, until finally tho
nomination was made unanimous.
Atlantic City, N. J Sept. fi. The Na
tional Women Suffrage association hy
an overwhelming vote to-day decided
to continue Its present policy of work
ing for etiual rights through both na
tional nnd State legislation. The vote,
was taken after a long debate and no
sooner had the applause that grePted
the announcement of tho action taken
ceased than a resolution was presented
which threatens to again open the
whole question to-morrow.
Virtually all the speakers declared
for strict neutrality In the presidential
campaign nnd to continue the non-partisan
efforts of the association to bring
about equal suffrage throughout the
United States.
Women from every State in the Vn'n
aro attending the 4Sth annual conven
tion of the association, which was
called two months In advance of Its
regular meeting because of the national
political campaign.
The question of continuing the pres
ent policy of the association came be
foie the convention in the form of two
proposed amendments to the organiza
tion's constitution. One proposed that
the association drop work on State leg
islation and concentrate on the pro
posed amendment to the federal consti
tution. The other provided that tho
association cease its efforts In behalf
of the federal nmondtripnt and confine
its activities to gottlng woman's suf
frage by States. The amendments were
defeated by a vlvu voce vote in which
fow afllrmntlvo voices were heard.
Then Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. presi
dent of the association, presented the
following resolution:
"The 4Sth nnntial convention of tha
Woman's Suffrage association Inter
prets article 2 of the constitution,
which pledgps our au.xillarles to se
cure the vote for women by appropri
ate national and State action, as mean
ing that the federal amendment is out
immediate and principal aim: and that
all State campaigns, whether legisla
tive or referendum, are preparatory tc
this end."
Miss Laura Clay of Lexington. Ivy.,
staunch advocate of State's rights.
Immediately attacked the resolutions
is undemocratic and as nullifying ths
action Just taken hy the convention.
The resolution nlso stirred un onnosi.
Hon among other delegates and theia
was every evidence of a stormy ses
sion. A motion by Miss Clav thnt ih
resolution he laid on the table was de
feated and then further debate was
shut off by tho carrying of a motion
made by Mis Hannah J. Patterson of
Pittsburg, Pa., corresponding secre.
tary. that tho resolution bo marie a
special order for 11:00 a. m. to-morrow.
There was a three-cornered debatn
on the policy quetlnn. Miss Clay led
the forces who favored exclusive Stato
action; Mrs. Ida Husted Harper. New
ork, was tho principal speaker for
concentration on the federal amend
ment, and Mrs. Raymond Brown, New
ork, made tlio principal address in
favor of no change in policy,
Mrs. Catt opened the discussion and
amused the delegates hy statlnfr that
Charles K. Hughes, the republican
presidential nomlnea had told her that
the republican platform camo nearer tj
what the suffragists want than that ol
tho Democratic party, and that on ths
other hand, President Wilson told he
the democratic platform was nearer ta
woman suffrage than the republican
platform.
She said, however, that she bellevsi
hnth presidential candidates were sin
cere and honest, and declared that both
were far ahead of their respective par
ties In their views on the suffrnge ques
tion. Pr. Anna Howard Shaw, former pres.
Ident of the association loudly ap
plauded when she wis called upon ta
close the debate. The non-partisan
campaign for equal rights the aesocia
tion has waged for so many years, sh
said, had brought the suffrage ques.
tlou up to whore It Is to-day Educa
tion of men, rather than partisan po
litical action upon the part of the as.
soclatlon, sho said, was the best meth
od to bring about universal equal suf
frage The announcement to the delegatel
that President Wilson will speak at th
convention Friday night was greeted
with long .applause.
Horse Died of Fright.
Mlildlebnry, Sept (i. A horso valued
at $300 dropped dead to-day, from the
effects of fright. It Is thought. W. K
Foster was working with Ills team lit
the homo of his son-in-law, drawing
grain to the shin of the threshing ma
chine. nd It Is thought that tho horse's
death was due to fright caused by tho
uolso of tho power of tho fast running
machine.
CELEBRATES 10IST BIRTHDAY
.11 rx. Sophia Wrlih nf lln (imnvlllt
Un t'c of All Her Kiiciiltlea
'I'll ken Auto Itlile.
Randolph, Sept Mndam Sophia Wchb
of Bast Granville celebrated another
anniversary to-day, when she reached
her 101st birthday. Madam Webb ha
the use of all her faculties and enjoyi
much that Is of Interest to yoiiiKTOi" peo
ple. She received to.dny many callers
and seemed to enjoy their visits, Only
a few dnys ago she took an aiitomoblla
rldo to Roxhury with tho family and
visited relatives there, j
J una U J, Jlar.vey, Bt. Jph;ishury.,
