vfc'
«r j?
r'
STRIKE IS CALLED OFF
fight Nur Law Passed by Congress
Caises Trainmen to Rescind
Their Orders for Big Strike.J
The big Btrike of the trainmen,
which was scheduled for Monday
morning, and which would have para
lysed the business interests of the
entire country, was called off last
^Saturday, following the passage" by
the senate of the bill which passed
"the htouse on Friday, which provides
that all trainmen and telegraphers
employed on any railroad operating
a line one hundred miles or more in
length, shall have eight hoars as the
standard for a day's work, with over
time for any hours they work in ex
cess of that number. The embargo
which had been placed on receiving
shipments of livestock and perishable
freight, was lifted at Leon Saturday
morning about 11 o'clock. The train
men on the trains passing through
Leon Were very jubilant, for a great
many of them did not want to see a
Btrike, realizing that it would' mean
a long hard struggle, and that many
Who went out would probably not
get back in employment again.
The averting of this great rail
road strike is due to the untiring ef
forts of President Wilson, who has
been working day and night for sev
eral weeks, trying to effect a compro
mise between the railroad managers
and the representatives of the train
men, and was finally effected by forc
ing a measure through congress mak
ing eight hours the stanadrd of a
day's work, and providing that all
other questions involved should be
submitted to arbitration. The bill
passed the senate by practically a
strictly party vote, the republicans
yjotfJig against it through fear that it
would work in Wilson favor at the
coming election. Both of the Iowa
senators, Cummins and Kenyon vot
ed against the bill, and the people
who would have been affected should
the Strike have occurred should bear
this in mind. President Wilson has
won the respect and admiration of
every fair minded man by his great
work in this matter.
v"any
ffU
Msing good game between Davis City
county!will
your
JM.
Another Oil Company at Leon.
The Collins Oil Co., of Knoxville,
have engaged in business in Leon,
atanding 3 to 3. The tie will i»e play-
-«d off next Sunday afternoon on the
]C«
City, on
Mng coys, calves and bull calves, ana year8
25 yitra good young sows ^na 7&
Watch for bis sale aav.
TTJW" 1
&>"
th®
rnnn1
f,"
The
"*v'this meeting also every
new law
goes into effect on January 1, 1917,
and unless the railroads make a
fight against the legality of the law,
all dangers of a great railroad strike
have passed.
§•, 5*/ Notice to Democrats.
-Jl
NEW HOTEL LEON.
Finest Hotel in Town of this Size In
the State—A Credit to Leon.
The new annex to Hotel Leon has
been completed and was formally
opened to the public on last Friday,
and the name has been changed to
New Hotel Leon. The new three story
annex erected on the lots south.of
OQ
and eleven sleeping porches, in
the old hotel, now give ample accom-1 .. |n
modation for any requirements, and
has® beYn leased by the
^!ed
i= ctpom hpat in
b,aihfnrt nf
get the advantage of it. A big space
on the roof of the adjoining building
has been floored and provides a
There will be a. meeting of the
.Democratic County central Commit- much larger than the
tee on Sept 9th, at 2:30 p. m., at room, which will be remodeled for hundreds were parked along the side
«i« iinmorra'tic headauarters in Mar-
1,86
attend
democrat
"ten Woodard's office. -Uilao btiingp remodeled, tile-floor being Leon Tuesday than were ever here
It is necessary that every commit- 'laid and new furniture added. New before in one day.
jr 'teeman in the county should
"that Is interested in democratic gov- a ladies' reception room will prove
ernment Ia
very
After a great deal of hard work,: this time on the hotel office will good equipment and a lot of fine
we have secured W. J. Bryan for Sept! never close, the night clerk being on horses, seven elephants and eight
27 as Mr Bryan will only be six days duty all night. The New Hotel i^eon camels. The show pitched their tents
in the state of Iowa, Decatur
out
are
continue to be operated on the
fortunate in getting him for one American plan, with rates of ?J.00, the parade was given at.1 clock the
"day The place of this meeting has ?2.25, $2.50, and $3.00 per day, ac- streets were jammed with people. At
"^not yet been decided. The state cen- cording to the rooms, so they can sat- the afternoon show there was a big
tral committee has left that in the isfy any one with any room they d£- crowd in the tent, one of the circus
4' hands of your chairman to decide. If sire. men saying it was the largest crowd
town desires Mr. Bryan on that I The Bowshers have invested a big they had had since they nad come
"tfate and you will present
claims, we will consider it as we de- furniture and other improvements
•ire to put Mr Bryan where we think costing them in the neighborhood of Gollmar Bros, have a good clean
he will have the largest crowd and 120,000, and they are to be com- circus, and there were no gambling
*do the most good mended for supplying Leon with
having erected two big storage tanks Landlord Bowsher will take pleas- Bros, can alway count on a good
near the freight house in this city,
ure
and commenced last week distribut- through this fine hotel at any time.
Ing oil and gasoline from their sta
tion at Leon. Perry Worden, who
has been the local manager of the
Standard Oil Co. here for several
Some llecord as a Gunner.
C. R. Riley of Decatur, just receiv-
y^rs"resigned"and*took"charge of ed word that his son Earl W. Riley, Announcement was made in the
tlie Collins Co., and Lester Thomp- Decatur City's postmaster, who is creston papers Tuesday that Clar
son of near Van Wert has taken the with the Atlantic tieet on the civilian
manasement of the Standard Oil cruise has been made flrst gunner on bought an interest in the McGregor
Co's business at this place. Both the 3 inch guns, the largest calibre Furniture Co., of that city. Mr.
companies are now using motor used in this target practice. The Coen was a former resident of Leon,
trucks to make their deliveries with, target was towed 5 knots an hour, coming here with F. S. Stewart from
1850 yards from the battleship, and Afton when Mr. Stewart purchased
Leon and i»avis City Played a Tie the battleship steamed parallel at 10 his business here, having worked for
Game Sunday. knots an hour. Each pointer was Mr. Stewart at Afton since he was a
lowed four shots. After-making small boy, and left here last year
ife- A. big bunch of fans saw a crack- f^ur hits with his four shots, Earl
was
and Leon at the Leon ball park Jast ceeded in making i» hits out of 16
Df
Fisher IVill h&ve & StockS
year
nexi, year
Marriage Licenses. I
_______ c.
Frederick E. McCullough, Detroit,""
Michigan —-...27
Joy M. Smith, Lamoni ..27
Harry Buffum, LeRoy .......— 27
Cecelia Coffey, Weldon 28
Jan Baker, Humeston 21
Jan Baker, iiumesion millinery opening to be held this fall
Hulda Ivy, Humeston ai jQ county, that of Keller &
Otceda 18-Leim a*-....-
Leon's second baift ball team went
«A-^Weola last Sunday and was ae- of showing the finest line of millin-
permitted, to continue and sue-
Sunday afternoon, which was called shots and as it was termed, simply gQg young man, who made friends
at the end of the 10th inning on ac- tore the target to pieces. I with everyone with whom he came in
Vscount of the darkness with the score jUBt
SUch
makes
Leon grounds and both teams will ft js the best in the world.
6
|at his farm one mile north of Decatur
•I* ua a sack of fine ripe figs Saturday,
^j} kay'
a stiock^saje g,.own
on a
-nnma Monday morning, and the total en-
tion to the three rooms on the ye~_ ago in the High School the
ground floor, added to the rooms in
Adams'^e
Co. as their office, and the
south room which contains a big fire
... "rnnm "of
place will bethe pmate 'oom °f
enjoy himseff and' entertain his
many friends.
"ieuuo- _« superintendent and he will have a
th nnovS6nrp ?yneiiplt rhambers splendid corps of assistants in the
ni a hath anH ^iiPt' |High School this year, and is looking
a or a to he be a on
and the rooms are large, well venti^
Ili^dfnrItldorthe CeueVstnie
No I
flnnrfi arp all of bircll trftinillS allQ aeriCUliur©.
nf
floor
fp enpsts have
for the comfort of the guests liave
if there is any breeze blowing they
space which can be utilized for roof Gollmar Bros, were greeted with a
dances or parties. 'big crowd when they exhibited at
The dining room is being moved Leon on Tuesday. People commenc
to'the north room of the hotel, open-
cozy resting place, and from pot to watch them unload. They had
at the
lot of money in the hotel, new annex, into Iowa. A very fair crowd attend-
ed
or
p. Springer, something which the city has needed show. It was the quietest circus
County Chairman. f°r a long time, a really first-class
hotel. »Ve trust they will receive the talk, and everything connected with
patronage'which they deserve, and the show passed off like, clockwork,
from the way business has started The performance was good, many ex-
since the annex was opened they tra good acts being shown, a number
going to get it. iof them being original ones. Gollmar
when
j? tree showing ripe figs and figs just it with a great deal of pleasure. Mr.
,jhrhe, will sell 30 head of thoroughbred formjng close together. JWr. Hill has Wooter, from Ames, "will be in at
.'•Ajand high grade-Angus catties lncirnw
the
ug
tree
for
about
anQ
|,as 50rn
a
than 200 figs from the tree and it is
full of fruit yet. He has the tree in
a big tub and in the winter places it
in his cellar.
It Is Thursday, Friday and Saturday,
Sept. 7th, 8th and 9th. v.. ..
We refer of course to the one big
«L^d to the Osceo^ team, by a ®ry to be found in southern Iowa. |per acre. That lo«
a Tti^^rdctilBr ball') Make a note of these dat^i and plan some pretty good
ieoie of13 ip 2. Th(6cregtllar bair
^^^i^.PcltTnonathe Leon^omSds embracing the very latest crea- September for $ 2 5 50 per acre as "it
ife tion. to new iiUllliiery stands in the fleldf^.,
loaMfeMt
"T? W
1
SCHOOL BEGAN MONDAY
With an fnrollmeht of 567 Pupils,
167 in the High School and
400 in the Grade Rooms.
!rollment the first day was 567, as
addJ-,against C19,
®arnorth
opened near* every roon, has been ,g
occupied.
'building there are 146 as against 152
no school
On the first floor of the ann«5x is a :. There was
line tiled room which will beoccu-
TueS{jay on
Rogers history and German, Miss
!Mida
more rooms. There is steam neat in Thnmmnn manual
every room and also in each bath
and
ESTABLISHED 1854. LEON, IOWA, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1916. VOLUME LXIII, NO. 4.
The Leon, public schools opened
when school opened a
ln tne Mlgfl scn001 l,ie
thp
«rraie8
at
enrollment this year Is 167 while last
year it was 178. In the grades a^
the building there is an enroll
In Ul6 gradGS
account of the circus, and
Pu»ils
did not enter the flrst
There are quite a number of
changes in the teachers this year,
four new
members of the High
Sch°o1 facult'
and 8everal new grade
teachers. Prof. O. M. Gass Is again
In addition to his duties as
ivLnef i? fittine them intendent Prof. Gass will teach phys
f,« hntZomp fnr hp flnS
ics and
L! h^ffnnilnpri lithRnvn^mat' Fiances M. Sears will teach Latin,
t^ss^s^ Wav^ Sasless sprint ^ind'Miss Hattie Whitney algebra and
Pufhnan bhmkefs There is a t^e- geometry, Miss Mina Walker English
phone in e^i r^om, handsome eteo-sct^d
trie light fixtures, and a «ressing mathematics MisrGretclfen McClure
rfnt'fid8'esnecta11v^'bv°the^'1adies&^11 English, Miss Ruth Golding domestic
£roomsa" so arranged thai they ami pi,,,!-!.,. Ml», Marie
can be thrown into suites of two or
BUPer"
Psychology, Principal Miss
Bradley music and penmanship
P™f- J- °n
The
H.rljr Jinfne^rches building are: Mi sees liernice Bruce,
Ln fnrf rnnnff-tPd with Emma Mark, Harriette Beavers,
jl hnth aii thp littlp details 'Josephine Cooney, Harriette Lion
firto
berger,
'Sh^use sHiS8 TheC sleeping At south iuilding Miss Ella
1,1 eda
manual
grade teachers at^the north
Nellie Muilins and hallie
../innrp fln(i
been looked after, even down to sup- fi^Btftuto iteacher
Circus Drew Big' Crowd.
ed
ing on the street, and it will have a jng,. and all the available parking
tile floor and be nicely decorated and space around- the court house park
old dining was soon filled with autos while
Everybody was circus hungry and
«8 a sample room. The office is streets. There were more autoes in,
toilets are also being PUt.in. On the, The circus arrived about 8 o'clock
second floor at the head of the stairs from Greenfield and the usual crowd
Qf
coming to Leon early in the morn­
early risers assembled at the de-
Warner ball park, and when
the night show.
skin games connected with the
eVer
jn showing any who desire crowd at Leon. The show went from
ence
in Leon, no loud or boisterous
here to Bethany, Mo.
Clarence Coen Buys Interest In Mc
Gregor Furniture Co. at Creston.
Coen, formerly of Leon, had
he was
offered
Baies
ata
Uncl«* Sam's battleships is what they will all wish him unbounded
the gun record'of our navy as success.
fce spiked to the limit, so you can I Picnic for Corn Club Bdys.
expect to see the best game of the Raised Good Crop o( Figs in Decatur
County. There will be a picnic for the boys
who were entered in the Boys' Corn
Will Sell Angus Cattle at Auction.
—T^-r— 'us a sack of fine ripe figs Saturday, 'year*held at the park at Davis City
a
fine
position as
manager of tne McGregor store
Creston: Mr. Coen is a mighty
men as this at the guns 'contact while a resident of Leon, and
.»
J. H. Hill, of Decatur City, brought Club Contest in Decatur county this
n„AnrM AM A 1i4a ViAmo In riAAQ- Att Thoo/Io 1 O 1 A a
tree at his home in Deca-
tur and also a
branch from the and girls too are looking forward to
fifteen tendance and explain all about the
crop every Baby Beef contest and how to enter
for the past six years. This it. There will also be an opportunity
he has already pulled more to meet the new county leader, Neal
Campbell, of Grand River, who grad
uated last year from Ames, and who
frill have charge of the contest work
in Decatur county the coming year.
fSlliiSISi Mabel Horner,
.County Superintendent.
Pryor, and the ladies of this part of jday, everything selling well: He
the state will all want to attend, for gold 60 acres of corn in the field, one
Keller & Pryor have the reputation '^lece bringing |20.00 an acre, anotlf
third one *25.50
looks as if there was
.. some pretty good corn in Decatur
to ^attend so that you can see tM full oounty, when it will sell the first of
Corn Brought 925.50 Per Acre._
er
ad a an go
sale at his farm^Bouth of Leon Moh-
|25.00 and a
EXCELLENT SPEED PROGRAM.
HaiTison County Fair to le Held at
Bethany,' Mo., Sept. 12-16, Will
Show Fast Classy Horses.
Entries arriving daily assures the
Harrison County Fair, which is to be
held at Bethany, Sept. 12 to 16, 1916,
of some of .the fastest and classiest
horses in running, trotting and pac
ing raceff that are brea in America.
These pursed are extra large ones and
the half mile track built right up to
the minute tor speed, are attracting
horse owners from Car and near.
The 8peed fr*ogCA?l!^Co tisists of sev
era. runniiM(gtroltiiiMp and pacing
racea.'j^h^|^^Yo»g6oat the fair
and^fb^MHra-CTacV as the associar
tio|^^llaHm)l8h new records should
be m(tde,. .Jtamember the date3, Sept.
«ew Euroiean Hotel.
#o. now has a second good hotel,
a Btrictfy European hotel, the New
Central House, located at the north
Wst corner of the public square,
which will be operated by Mrs. Ger
trude Markley. A force of workmen
ace at work painting and papering
hotel, and it will all be complet
this week. There are 23 rooms
and it makes a splendid
S haa
Mrs Bprta HendGrson as
Henderson as
*erren ana Frances Menougn.
IMley's Honey.
^rQcess can come in and rake
bees off the map. My
nectar into delicious honey. We all
crave tor c:.ndy and sugar, and it
a^active and comfortable place. A Schonert, and the short-hand teacher,
reception
and writing room is loeat- Mrs. Huston.
ed on the, second floor, and every-I The residence of Robert McCoy, on
thing'-about the place will be made the farm of Wm.'Woodard, west of
many letters from commercial men! from home for the night and the fire!
asking in regard to when the rooms was evidently of incendiary
rvla„'SSSES2-tlir
eating_too mucn it is harmful to the p-s,,-, on
kidneys, stomach and the digestive
organs ill general. This is not the
case with honey, you caneat all you
J3ver since the- water tower was
erected we have heard talk of how
n^p iX innk
hi^rtiinw it fit tnn
If
burning .at the^top of the tower. It
prv ^irlt^ ,?,? l"ouid"1
ery direction from Leon, and ^°uld
be a mighty good advertisement tor
the city. The Leon Electric Co.,
through Manager E. Jacobsen' had
Ixnlifsp of wliLe tC tiwfr aiid iLet,n'
Know A. B. Garretson.
a frequent visitor in this city. He
tor is proving a very live wire, and
is a most pleasant gentleman. Plans
hEtve been made by the church people
to build a fine new churchv.and a new
parsonage ln this city the coming
year, and the project of raising funds
lVw.A-
TWENTYFIVC YEARS AGO
Items Taken from the Files of The
Reporter Published a Quarter
of a Century Ago.
t,the house, and it has been newly |L. Lyon and Prof. V. R. McGinnis as ,J°^® hi thl
fished throughout with beds, bed-| principal of the High School. The
fei carpets and rugs, all fiw»t-class,- total enrollment was 370, of which
rooming
house, in an ideal location. Mrs. whom were non-residents. There
Markley is sparing no expense in fit- were eleven teachers employed, which
t&g up the hotel so as to make it an
1
68 were High School pupils, 20 of
included the music teacher, Prof.
as home like as possible. Mrs. Mark- Springer's ford, was burned last Fri- ?®r f'nftnn A tn npnlpw' Rnh
ley has already rented nine rooms to day night about half past eleven. JnirH nf rpVP«w Hp rnnnts
permanent roomers and has received Both Mr. and Mrs. McCoy were away
b.lrned
1^i,.,»£^«2ar,2Ul,?Sdril6l,!l«'5S,d
decide to make Leon her permanent! Mr. Elmer Brown and Miss
"7™^—— Kansas, is visiting with old friends
in this city
I have been selling honey all sum
mer in Decatur, Iov/a, and will be
selling it all fall and winter. I have
not yet sold two sections alike in fin
ish. If the bees made two thousand
sections of honey, no two would be
alike any more than two men would
i°JiUmt^ reunion of La and Nebraska veter!
bees ripen
R.
lear.u
1
ness, and will go a long way toward Lh5 will hf milrt hv th»
keeping you in healthy condition. aJh«vh,w mofip ,irfn^ Pir
If you want to live as long as you ^ave made during their
^^aywUlrlaJSg too muchTandy the^bstacfbSess
and sugar, and eat mere of C. R.
the
r»
Doss Caster received a box by ex- __
press Monday containing a fine pug Kathlyn Williams supported by Guy
dog, a present from a cousin in Ot- Oliver and Harry Lonsdale in this
tumwa. Doss has never before own- *f,ve .of Juuf^e
ed a dog, but is very proud of his'
origin,
the'r hoU8e,,°ld S°°d5
Hotel business, having formerly con-| Mrs.'c. W. Beck who had been «'1JES'om®miBeri' uJooheev'S "'The'sud'
ducted the. Hotel L,eon in this city, for some time, passed away on Sept. l*1^® ,1^ tnward"
year6'
11
m0n"S
Ett«
home. We predict tliat within a Stcno were married at the home of, ®. rppinrfliaHnn
very short time every room in the the bride's parents, northwest of
house will be taken by permanent Leon on Tuesday, Sept. 1st. o'clock flr»t ^eveS^hows at 7 -15
roomers. Mrs. Orpha Howard, of Hiawatha, .ock'J"r
Herry Lunbeck, of New York City,
is here for a ten day visit with his
pc.ients and many old friends.
for Fairfield, where she will attend!
Parson College.
an?
chemical change
their honey by the fanning of «-heir|T| 'P1 ,® rcreeds. is
wings, which evaporates the water ^.1]^®^^ Capt. Greeley has not only per
out of it. Then
HHJhLonL
takes place by the action of these JT' iL LL memorialized his wife but has made
wonderful chemists in chancing the ?':ys V*
the latest styles in
Geo. W. Thuro 36 to Delia Brown
wish of it, and your digestive mnchin-B®yds*°°a°f,.^™llyJ®a^® ing of a good deed for the sake of
ery will not be overtaxed with cweet- Ihpjr fntn^p'
Riley's honey. I assure you that
there will be less practice for. the doc
tors. Please call at Decatur in per In all of the thousands of people certain rich men who die sitting on
son, by letter or phone, and your or-1who welcomed candidate Hughes to their money bags, distrustful of all
ders will have my immediate otten- Oregon and Portland, we doubt that who approach and adding greedily
tion for comb or extracted honey. there were three such happy boys fts to a hoard already too great for hap-
was
game piace
Thes& three
3rd Iowa
Qf har(J service and
attached to each other.
Iowa was
to thfp pxtm lliht It nouid be ly detaileu to lead desperate charges., his own eyes and he knows that it
Bn'nion.fno!«nirai h^npfit anrt thp
Men
PTO«la? S'Vn'^nM leathern
chonl|y ordering a lirt. m^at he has departed.
Men are forgotten quickly.
dies
There are many people in Leon committeeman from Lane county. green through generations. Th6 icli.
who will remember A. B. Garretson, Newton is a resident of the man's millions are scattered in a
formerly of Osceola, now chairman cedar Falls section, south of Molalla, day to eager hands that wait impa
of the Order of Railway Conductors, jmcj }g greatly beloved by his neigh- tientiy for them. A tall shaft. -or a
who has been the main stay of the bons because of his unselfish "interest massive mausoleum is no pledge to
railway employees in their light for |n
tjje
an eight hour day. Years ago Mr. These men separated after their ten it is a mere curiosity in steel
Garretson, resided at Osceola, and years of toil and sharing danger and marble at which passersby glance
was a conductor on the Burangton together, fifty-one years ago and nev- with no thought of -the dust that lies
road, but for many years he has de-
er met
untij
they
voted all his time to his official duties Wednesday. Of the one hundred and long and links the name and memory
with the Conductor's Brotherhood, {three men scarce a dozen are nowtiv- of its doer with itself while it en
He was a brother of Mrs. William 'w. dures.
Creighton, a resident of Leon for Capt. Brown was on his way. to Other men who crave memorials
many years, and during her. life was
Vig
1
now resides at Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Colonel Mercer' accompanied Mr.! for remembrance. His is the only
Newton to his home in the beautiful way. There is but one anchor to
Presbyterians Will Build New Church foothiiis of the Cascades and there' earth. He who leaves an honored
5a,? and Parsonage. ,f.
wui
ReV. C. S. Marsolf, the new pastor,^neen_18Au™,yj?
of the Presbyterian church, Who re- •_ royal corpse and leave it for others
cently arrived to take charge as pas- six Years for Postal Card to Reach to bury. '.'There is nothing so kingly-
Here From Omaha
One day last week, postmaster Jen
nings received a postcard in the mail,
addressed to Mr. and Mrs. James
Burns, bearing a postal stamp mark
IDLE HOUR SPECIALS.
Kathlyn Williams in "into the Primi
tive" Friday, anil Robert War-
%vick in "Sudden Riches"
Monday.
The special bill for Friday at the
Idle Hour theatre is "Into the Primi
tive," with the charming actress
nJ°
.^ie HnijlveltJ-s
"purp." It is a full blooded pug and play, packed with pupch,«#ower
quite a curiosity. ,an^ appeal.
Last Friday afternoon littel Car-1 pre-historic days, tha caveman
lisle, the six year old son of Mr. ^nd ^is f,1 ,®
Mrs. E. J. Sankey, was riding with1 ''Into the Primitive the cave-man
Mr. Little who was hauling manure the veneer of civilization dimmed,
from Mr. Sankey's barn to C. W.ide'ends Jennie Leslie from a cow
Hoffman's farm north of Leon. jn ard from hunger-maddened jungle
some manner the little fellow fell. beasts from herself.
from the wagon when they were near I
An^.
*n
t'ie
the residence of J. Hoffhines, and the ^10a discovers the strength, the re
wheels of the heavily loaded wagon sourcefulness, the kindliness, the
passed dirfectly over his breast. He Passionate, but honest love of the
was at once taken home and medical,
caye-man
aid summoned. For several days P®cted from the Hon. Cecil
his life was despaired of, but at this thrope, who invariably protested loy
writing he is some better. It was a.al.ty' always promised protection, but
wonder it did not kill him instantly. }v^? ?roy ,a weakling. The girl
The Leon public schools opened looked deeply into the cave-man
Monday under the charge of Prof. A. I eyes. I love you, she whispered. I
lv
The story of "Sudden Riches"
deals with a legacy of hate. Old Ab-
for
iiim8eif
a
trimming millinery. satisfaction.while he lives. He will
The following marriage licenses, pas8 the hospital day after day with
a feeling of personal satisfaction such
th k.
Albert G. Bush 21 to 'Nellie
not
Wi"
a»stract
1
C. R. Riley. were J. J. Newton, of Molalla, Col. piness. Greeley is gaining, the great
W. G. D. Mercer of Eugene, and Capt. satisfaction of seemg*with living eyes
Wouldn't a Big Light on the Water j0hn D. Brown, of Leon, Iowa. what kind of work the money he mast
Tower Look Fine? Early in the civil war Mr. Newton leave behind will be doing after he is
and Capt.'Brown enlisted and soon dead and gone. He is enjoying his
saw serious service. Colonel Mercer own philanthropy. One of the rea-
would volunteer for these diffi- will continue doing for him the
,hat
C""'
Col. Mercer has held important
government positions. He is now liv- they do for themselves
ing on his beautiful farm at Eugene, them. But philanthropic public aer
(He is active in politics being state Vice lives on to keep their mtemory
welfare of others. kindly and loving remembtance of-
^'%l
10 PAGES
ori,
oa*15,wLk
"ere!untu „w tail "at
"^i^strSon'^'re^'foVm"^
1
,h7XL
t®
®r
a
a
a
?us
ce'
end—woman intui-
not the love she had ex-
L, mJhfv
miShty
lasting pleasure and
as is to be gained only by doing unto
others that which weakness demands
0j
right from the strong. Without
a a in &
her who had
departed. It was a gar-
land on his wife
escaP®
factlon more than
residence in this city. vve under- thanks and appreciation of his com-
in
Greeley stands distinct from the
too young ana after waiting a sons men refuse to retire from active
tL tm it couple of years enlisted from the business life one of the strongest
I fears that men connect with death is
longed to Company that they must be out of it." That
cavalry. They saw lots their time of accomplishment is over,
became greatly! that others shall do what they de-
1
sirea to do and finish what they had
Capt. Brown, a wealthy citizen of begun. Greeley has finished one
famous in his com-1 task, completed an accomplishment.
a a in a re it a under
did so in Portland within it. But a good deed lives
his son Elmer Brown who lives for their dead and for themselves
Leland Oregon. I way well take note of Greeley's bid
spend a day visiting with him memory must have served men. Pow
and 'his familv ——Molalla Oreson er endures but a day. Those who lout
M°laUa ureg0?
-fotk the church.'and parsonage is of Nov. 30, 1910," showing that the serial. "Peg O' The Ring," wMchrwIlt"^""
meeting with- aUiUftral response from card had' been six years in making the be shown, at tbHtflV'Hbur theatre
the members of the"Le&TPeoagcega-ltrip here from Omaha. Did you ever thtf ariernoon and evening/ is a reial*
tloni. They hare been hoping t^Khe#r of the like before, and where do circus picture, and ln addition is fffl
bujld a new church for several years, 'you sfrppoM -tbat 'card had been in ed with exciting escapades of Pe|.'
and at last it^seems that their itii -wanderings?—-Garden Grove Ex- Matinee at .3 o'clock, first eveninc
hopefr*re to be fealized.
*•11
arms
and
On Monday comes Robert War
wick, the eminent dramatic artist in
"Sudden Riches," a photoplay of dis
t.nguishing inspiration, dealing with
a vital modern problem.
ne
i?_ ®?_c
thfl
y°"°s mans life. Robert, is oung
h'1 olavs at 3
1
Pnces 10 and
cents-
A Hospital or a Mausoleum?
... r, .. made the recipient of a $75,00o hos
Miss Clella Bashaw left Monday
Last week the city of Ames was
ital the i£t of Capt w. Greeley.
rson College. hospital as a memorial to his wife.
Henry^Bright left Monday for Ne-
Thp
^it was conditional only in that
The gift was conditional only in that
the city agree to keep up the hospital
in a fitting manner and open
the cit5r agree t0 keep
£K
"Pkeep*4t08pital
-the
h-
at all times to people of all sects anu
Ll formed an act of philanthropy and
4
Kravejbut he can
or avoid a
Personal Batls-
he can avoid the
^niTy 7nd "of Vho^e" whojsheiter
business. within the wans of the refuge he
Soldiers Meet After Half Century, created.
What
with
.lowest to kings are first to strip the
as kindness.'
Republican.
-Marshalltown Times-
Want to See Another Circus?
If you do, remember that the bis
show at 7 :15. Prices 5 and i0 cents.
