This Issue
16 Pages
"THE CALL OF THE
WILD" IS BEING
ANSWERED TODAY
Minot Nimrods in the Usual Numbers
Are in the Fields and the Feather­
ed Tribes are Being Bombarded.
Yesterday afternoon and since early
morning today, auto loads of merry
hunters have been leaving the city in
rapid succession, in quest of the fes­
tive prairie-chicken. While early in­
dications were that the crop of sage
hens would be short, this did not seem
to dampen the ardor of the sportsmen
in the least, and the fields adjaccent to
Minot are literally full of them. Time
was when a hunter could take his
trusty old Zulu and most any old kind
of a houn'-dawg and go out a few
miles in the country and return pres­
ently with all the game he could car­
ry—the bag limit then being an un­
known quantity. But times have
changed and a hunter must now be
equipped with a high-priced fire-arm,
a thorobred dog, and a wondrous store
of patience to come anywhere near
gathering in the bag limit, which is
now ten birds in any one day.
But, be that as it may, the keen en­
joyment of hunting is still left, and
the man who delights in wandering
afield with a plentious supply of am­
munition and a faithful dog is still
with us in large numbers, and seems
to get as much enjoyment out of the
sport as in the olden days when the
game was more plentiful and ammuni­
tion had not assumed the war-time
price. And it really is keen enjoy­
ment, especially for a man who is con­
fined in a city office nearly the whole
year 'round.
There has been a noticeable absence
this year of the "sooner"—the man
whose patience will not allow him to
•wait for the opening of the season to
commence his slaughter. This may be
due to various causes—but the game
wardens are probably due to consider­
able credit for this state of affairs, as
they have been keeping a very close
watch.
A good many of the hunting parties
now in the field will visit a duck
slough or two before returning to the
city, and those who have been keeping
a close watch over conditions in the
hunters' realm, state that the ducks
will be more plentiful than in recent
years, the weather that worked a
hardship on the young chickens being
just the climate that the ducklings
thrive on. All in all it seems that the
hunters will not fare so badly this
year.
METHODISTS NAME
SPEAKERS FOR MEET
After a conference with Rev. J. G.
Moore, superintendent of the Bis­
marck district of the Methodist
church, Rev. T. A. Olsen, pastor of the
First Methodist church of Jamestown,
announced that Rev. D. D. Forsythe
of Philadelphia will represent the
Home Missionary society, and E.
Johnson, newly elected bishop of Af­
rica, will represent the foreign board
•f missionary societies at the confer­
ence of North Dakota Methodists to
be held in Jamestown October 10 to
IS, inclusive. Bishop Cooke of Mon
taaa will preach at the Sunday morn
Mff session.
Biggest 4ign in the City
The Minot Electric company have
a aumber of electricians engaged in
Jfccing an enormous sign in front of
fee store which the M. G. Olson are
won to occupy. The sign is the larg­
est in the city, if not in the state. The
letters are 36 inches in height and the
sign alone exclusive of the hangings
weighed over a ton. This will be the
ftiest electrical sign in the city.
MMCOE MAN RETURNS
FROM VISIT TO NORWAY
Mr. H. M. Hendrickson of Simcoe,
N. D., returned this week from a visit
through Norway. It has been eleven
years since Mr| Hendrickson had vis­
ited his old home in Norway.
He found all his people weU and
prospering, but states that the great
European war has caused a very pe­
culiar state of affairs in both Norway
and Sweden. The moneyed class of
both countries are making money fas­
ter than they have ever done before,
but that the laboring class of both
oountries are up against an altogeth­
er different proposition. Everything
they have to eat and wear has doubled
ia value, while the scale of wages has
been increased but very little, since
the war started. This makes it very
difficult for the laboring class to meet
the advanced cost of living.
Mr. Hendrickson reports that crops
ia all of the Scandinavian countries
are very good this year, and says that
Hie price of flour when he left Norway
was $5.00 per sack, and that was be­
fore the recent rise in the price of
wheat.
According to his statement, there is
very little, of any, danger of either
•ae of the Scandinavian countries be
drawn into the present European
war.
Among other things noted by Mr.
•endrickson on his visit to his old
home was the fact that the young peo-
I
le of these countries are not as am
itious now to come to America as
«hey formerly were. When he visited
Norway eleven years ago the ambition
•f every young person was to come to
Aaierica, but since then they have be­
gun to develop new industries, har­
nessing the streams for their water
power, and this development has made
the younger generation more content
to live in their own country. He says,
however, that the Finlanders are very
uneasy and that as many of them as
possible are getting out through Nor­
way or Sweden and coming to the
United States.
On his return trip the boat on which
he traveled was scheduled to meet the
Deutchland and every day a careful
watch was kept to get a glimpse of
the blockade runner, but it was not
sighted.
Mr. Hendrickson expects to be the
manager of the new farmers' elevator
company at Genoa, N. D. He has long
been known as one of the staunch
Equity men of North Dakota and his
numerous friends will be glad to hear
of his safe return.
WILL ERECT CONCRETE
BUILDING THIS EALL
LaCrosse, Wis., Manufacturing Com­
pany Will Build Branch Fac­
tory in Minot
The Association of Commerce is in
receipt of a letter from Mr. E. Wege,
president of the Wege Concrete Ma­
chinery company of LaCrosse, Wis.,
announcing that his company will
commence the erection of a large con­
crete building for factory and assem­
bling purposes in this city before the
first of October. This plant will be
located on the Soo right-of-way in
the vicinity of the Minot Hide & Tan­
ning company, in the southeastern
part of the city.
Mr. Wege was in the city in July
and went over the situation with the
Directors of the Association of Com­
merce thoroughly with the result
that when he arrived at his home he
immediately made arrangements to
build this factory and assembling
plant in this city, but was delayed a
month in putting it across.
I This firm manufacturers several
kinds of concrete mixers, suitable for
[contractors and farmers, and will
naturally work up a large business
I from this city, as the territory is large
and prosperous.
FATAL SHOOTING AT
ELLENDALE MONDAY
In Quarrel Over Money Wm. Vaughn
Shoots and Fatally Wounds Tom
Price—Murderer in Co. Jail.
Tom Price, a colored man who has
been in Ellendale for several years,
was shot and almost instantly killed
by Wm. Vaughn, another negro, in
Price's home Monday evening, as the
result of an altercation regarding
some money which Vaughn claims
Price had stolen.
Vaughn, who has been employed as
a porter in the Robertson barber shop
for some time, had, it is said, been
drinking quite heavily for several
days. He and Price, however, were
apparently on good terms during the
morning, having together done the
porter work in the barber shop. Later
in the day Vaughn went to sleep on a
couch in Price's home, having twenty
five dollars in his shirt pocket. On
awaking he claims to have discovered
the loss of twenty dollars, accusing
Price of taking the money. Price de­
nied all knowledge of the money. It
is said that Vaughn threatened Price,
who did not consider the matter ser­
ious, and who paid no attention to
the threats.
About 7:30 Vaughn went to the
Price home, armed, supposedly, with
Price's revolver, a .45 calibre Belgian
gun. After some more talk about the
money, to which Price gave scant
heed, Vaughn drew the gun on Price
and pulled the trigger. The shells
in the weapon, were old, however, and
did not explode. Vaughn immediately
pulled again, and this time the shell
exploded, the bullet passing through
the flesh in Price's right arm, and en­
tering the body near the left breast,
was deflected downward, lodging in
the abdomen. Price left the house and
staggered to the street before he fell.
He died in a very few minutes, before
Dr. Lynde, who was called, could get
to him.
Earl Jones, another negro who was
present when the shooting occurred,
took the gun from Vaughn. Vaughn
left the house immediately, and went
to his room in the rear of the barber
shop, and almost at once went to the
front of the shop, picking up his razor
and sat down, telling Mr. Robertson
that he had shot Price. He waited
there until Chief of Police Wattles
came, offering little resistance to ar­
rest. He was taken to the county jail
in a few minutes by Mr. Wattles and
Deputy Sheriff Wilson. He was ap­
parently unconcerned at the time, but
showed ^considerable remorse the next
morning. Jones is confined in the city
jail as a witness.
Price's body was taken to his old
home near Kansas City last evening,
accompanied by Mrs. Price. Vaughn's
preliminary hearing was held yester­
day. The case appears very plain and
undoubtedly Vaughn will be held for
first degree murder.
Candidate for President on Prohibi­
tion Ticket Will Speak in Minot
Monday, Sept. 11—Special Train
The people of Minot and surround­
ing country have a great treat in store
for them next Monday evening. One
of the ablest thinkers, greatest ora­
tors and a man of the most unblemish­
ed and sturdy character is the chosen
national standard bearer of his party.
He will be accompanied by the vice
presidential candidate and other men
of national prominence on a special
train to arrive in Minot in a tour of
the nation next Monday evenig, Sept.
11th, remaining here from eight to
ten.
The Hon. J. Frank Hanley, ex-Gov­
ernor of Indiana, got his start 53
years ago in a log cabin in Illinois.
His parents were poor, and when but
a lad, the future candidate for pres­
ident trudged on foot into Indiana, the
state where he was later to become
the chief executive. Starting as a
ditch digger, making the record of be­
ing one of the best in the county he
taught school and saved the money to
go to normal school to make himself
a better teacher.
In 1888, as Republican "spellbind­
er," he made three counties sit up'and
take notice. Then followed in rapid
succession admission to the bar, elec­
tion to the state senate and to Con­
gress. Here he would have served his
second term, had he not been possess­
ed of a moral judgment, supported by
a conscience, that would not let him
make the promise that would have
given him the half vote necessary to
his nomination. This devotion to truth
and duty and the right has character­
ized his entire private and public life.
In 1904 he was elected Governor of
Indiana on the Republican ticket. In
his inaugural address he antagonized
the liquor interests by his declaration
of policy, and from that hour they
have had the knife aimed at his back
every moment. For the four years of
his term he hunted the grafters in the
state capitol from basement to dome,
and made his administration inaugu­
rate a new era in the affairs of the
commonwealth of Indiana.
Under the law he could not suc­
ceed himself as Governor, but in the
state convention of 1908 he dominated
the republican convention, and against
the bitterest antagonism of the party
bosses and in the face of threats of
political death, he caused to be writ­
ten into the party platform a plank in
favor of county option. It was at this
time that he delivered the famous ad­
dress, "I Hate It!" He called the leg­
islature in special session before elec­
tion to enact a county option law in
harmony with the platform declara­
tion, which was done.
Something of the principles of the
man was shown at the great national
convention of the Anti-Saloon League
afterwards in Columbus, Ohio, where
he championed and secured the declar­
ation: "Whenever a political party
or politician or executive official pre­
fers the liquor traffic above the pub­
lic morals we come to a stand. On
that issue we fight. Nice and cunning
distinctions will no longer do. Of
cavil and evasion we have had enough.
We want the decision and action of
the statesman henceforth. We know
this cause only and for it, whenever
necessary, men shall be set aside and
parties abandoned."
When the Republican state conven­
tion this year surrendered to the li­
quor interests, Mr. Hanley wrote in
his paper, "The National Enquirer,"
of Indianapolis, the editorial, "Sever­
ed," in which he read himself out of
the republican party. When the pro­
gressives offered him the nomination
for Governor on their ticket, he ac­
cepted on the condition that the Pro­
DEARTH OF PRISONERS
IN ALBERTA JAILS
Prohibition Act is a Stimulant and
Not a Deterrent of Business,
Says Alberta Man.
That the enactment of the prohi­
bition law in Alberta is a distinct
stimulus to business is claimed in a
recent letter to a Grand Forks brok­
erage firm from an Alberta customer.
Instead of tending to decrease busi­
ness, it has materially increased it in
every line. The letter goes on to add:
"I cannot recollect having seen any
one under the influence of liquor
since the act went into effect on the
1st of July, and the police records of
all the cities go to show that there is
apparently no drunkenness in Alber­
ta."
The writer states that the jails are
in most cases empty, and as the terms
of imprisonment expire, it will be
necessary to hire people to take care
of the crops around the jails, where
formerly the work was done by those
unfortunates who in most cases came
to the jail directly or indirectly on ac­
count of the liquor traffic.
THE WARD COUNTY INDEPENDENT
THE INPEPENDENT HAS THE LARGEST CIRCULATION OF ANY WEEKLY PAPER IN THE STATE
Vol. 15: No. 21. Minot, Ward County, North Dakota, Thursday, September 7, 1916. Subscription $5.50 Per Annum
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
IN MINOT NEXT MONDAY
gressive party should become a prohi­
bition party. But when the progres­
sive national convention in Chicago
declared in effect that they ought to
declare for prohibition, but that they
fThis
not dare to make such a declara
of principle, there was only one
:ourse left to Mr. Hanley.
5 great orator, of such high prin­
ciples sterling integrity of character
and fine fighting qualities in a great
Moral cause) is to be in Minot Mon­
day evening, Sept. 11th, from eight to
ten. On the same train will be vice
presidential candidate, Dr. Ira Land
rfth, noted scholar, educator and or
ajtor ex-Governor Foss of Massachus­
etts, one of the great men of recent
political history the Hon. Oliver W.
Stewart, former prohibition represen­
tative in the legislature of Illinois and
rtow national chairman of the prohibi­
tion party, himself a remarkably
wrong and able speaker and other
men of note.
There is no superior of Mr. Hanley
on the American platform as an ora­
tor on the subject of prohibition.
What is in store for those fortunate
enough to hear him at the opera house
next Monday may be judged partly by
this excerpt from his great speech in
the Indiana republican convention of
1908.
"I Hate It!"
"Personally I have seen so much of
the evils of the traffic in the last four
years, so much of its economic waste,
so much of its physical ruin, so much
of its mental blight, so much of it
tears and heartaches, that I have
come to regard the business as one
that must be held and controlled by
strong and effective laws. I bear no
malice toward those engaged in the
business, but I hate the traffic.
"I hate its every phase I hate it
for its intolerance. I hate it for its
arrogance. I hate it for its hypocrisy.
I hate it for its cant and craft and
false pretenses. I hate it for its com­
mercialism. I hate it for its greed
and avarice. I hate it for its sordid
love of gain at any price. I hate it
for its domination in politics. I hate
it for its corrupting influence in civic
"affairs. I hate it for its incessant ef­
fort to debauch the suffrage of the
country: for the cowards it makes of
public men. I hate it for its utter dis­
regard of law. 1 hate it for its ruth­
less trampling of the solemn compacts
of state constitutions. I hate it for
the load it straps to labor's back for
the palsied hands it gives to toil for
its wounds to genius for the trage­
dies of its might-have-beens. I hate
it for the human wrecks it has caused.
I hate it for the almshouses it peo­
ples for the prisons it fills for the
insanity it begets for its countless
graves in potter's fields. I hate it for
the mental ruin it imposes upon its
victims for its spiritual blight for
its moral degradation. I hate it for
the crimes it has committed. I hate it
for the homes it has destroyed. I hate
it for the hearts it has broken. I hate
it for the malice it has planted in the
hearts of men.
"I hate it for the grief it causes
womanhood—the s«alding tears, the
hopes deferred, the strangled aspira­
tions, its burden of want and care.
"I hate it for its heartless cruelty
to the aged, the inUrm and the help­
less for the shadow it throws upon
the lives of childien for its mon­
strous injustice to blameless little
ones.
"I hate it as Abraham Lincoln hated
slavery. And as he sometimes saw in
prophetic vision the end of slavery and
the coming of the time when the sun
should shine and the rain should fall
upon no slave in aH the Republic, so I
sometimes seem to see the end of this
unholy traffic."
Do not fail to hear the greatest
American orator oa the question of
prohibition at the »pera house, Mon­
day evening at eiglifc o'clock.
WILL SOON ISSUE
FARM PAPER IN CITY
The Periodical Publishing Co. Getting
Ready for Business—Will Continue
Northwestern Agriculturist.
The Periodical Publishing Company,
publishers of the rejuvenated North­
western Agriculturist, is gradually
getting matters in shape to commence
publication of this excellent farm pa­
per from Minot.
In the shake-up at the time the Ag­
riculturist got into troublous waters
the paid up subscription list consisted
of 40,000. This is a gilt-edged list,
composed of farmers in North and
South Dakota, Iowa, Minnesota and
Montana. WTien it is considered that
many prosperous farm papers thru
out the country have even less it
should be apparent that the Agricul­
turist starts out with a great asset,
one that it takes years to accumulate.
The basement of the Blakey block
has been leased for a term of years by
the publishing company, and a new
press and linotype nave been ordered
to fill out the necessary equipment.
Several job presses and a large quan-
tity of printing material will also ar­
rive in the city shortly for installation
in the plant.
The first issue of the Agriculturist
will be off the presses within two or
three weeks, and then an active cam­
paign for a larger subscription list
and advertising will be inaugurated,
with the result that before snow flies
the property will be in first class con­
dition.
Messrs. W. H. Wigham and B. Cast
berg are in the city making final ar­
rangements for the starting of the
company, and it is expected that the
new concern will start out under very
favorable auspices.
The Periodical Publishing Company
will do a great deal in the matter of
advertising Minot throughout the ad­
joining states, and the Association of
Commerce feels that a real splendid
industry has been landed for the city.
FINISH BRIDGES
Pontoons Are Now in Place and the
Stream Can Now Be Crossed at
Williston.
The Missouri river has been bridged
at Williston. Thirty-five boats and
short stretches of trestle work sup
port plank driveways over both the
main and the old channels.
PLAN PACE AGAINST
T[ME ACROSS COUNTRY
Letter Rushed Thru North Dakota
This Week From Boston to
Seattle in 120 Hours.
Marmarth, N. D., Sept. 5.—Ar­
rangements have been practically per­
fected for the national letter carrying
event when the Yellowstone trail offic­
ials and the many trail boosters along
the entire trans-continental route will
attempt to carry a war letter from
Boston to Seattle in 120 hours, aver
againg 31 miles an hour.
No time will be taken out for neces­
sary stops or accidents, and the letter
will be rushed from the time it is
placed in the hands of the first relay
carrier until it reaches Seattle, the
run continuing thruout the nights as
well as daylight.
E. J. Daley, of Lemmon, the same
daring driver that made such wonder­
ful time last year in the Chicago to
Seattle relay event, will carry the let­
ter from Lemmon to Marmarth, where
it, will be picked up by Frank Mielke,
who with Adolph Goplin as emergency
assistant, will take the epistle on its
mad journey as far as Ismay.
•Mielke has gained considerable of
a reputation as a speed demon of th?
Barney Oldfield type, and it is gener­
ally believed that he will be more able
to keep within the required schedule
than any other driver from Marmarth.
Emergency cars will be stationed
along the line, and others will follow
the official car, in order to be close at
hand in case an accident should oc­
cur, and every possible precaution will
be taken to prevent an accident of any
kind.
It is especially desirable that all
having occasion to use the trail
Thursday, Sept. 7, take every precau­
tion to stay in the clear.
Attractive Window Display.
The McKinney-Fuller Motor Co.
have a window display which is at­
tracting considerable attention. The
window is dressed to typify a camp
scene. A handsome Dodge Brothers'
car occupies the center of the scene,
while decoy ducks, guns, a tent, camp
stove, hunting coats and boxes of
shells are ranged about, making the
scene a familiar one to sportsmen. F.
H. Stoevener, city salesman for the
McKinney-Fuller Motor Co., conceived
the idea, and his artistic treatment
of a camping scene indicates his fa­
miliarity with the requirements of an
ideal hunter's camp.
17 Bu. No. 1 Hard to the Acre.
Chas. Nelson of Drady threshed 17
bushels of wheat to the acre from a
40-acre patch which graded No. 1
Hard. Mr. Nelson has rented his
farm and will move to Minot to live
during the winter.
1
The work under Foreman Madison
has been driven with remarkable:
speed since the material arrived. The
actual work of pushing the structure
across the racing current has required
less than a week. No accidents oc­
curred and no serious difficulty was
met. Great interest has attended the
progress of the work and hundreds
made daily excursions to watch it.
The bridge site, which is less than
half a mile below the Great Northern
depot, at the end of the riprapping, is
said to be one of the most favorable
on the river. The main channel is
probably the narrowest to be found
below the mouth of the Yellowstone,,
the revetment work preventing the
cutting of the bank. But the narrow­
ness (about 500 feet) causes greater
depth and unusual swiftness. South
of the island the old, or lessor chan­
nel, is shallow, sluggish and only 250
feet in width. This was easily spar-1
ned by eleven pontoons and plank ap­
proaches.
FIRST
SECTION
OLD ACE PENSION
10 JAMES I. HILL
Pension System Based on Length of
Continnous Service Will Become
Effective oa Sept. 16.
St. Paul, Aug. 3D.—A pension sys­
tem for employes of all departments
of the Great Northern railroad based
on length of continuous service will
become effective September 16, ac­
cording to announcement made by W.
J. McMillan, president of the Great
Northern Railway Veterans' associa­
tion last night. Mr. McMillan, besides
being chief of the veterans' associa­
tion, is a Brotherhood member of
years standing.
Mr. McMillan, who has been em­
ployed thirty-eight years and who is
now conductor on the fast mail from
St. Paul to the Pacific coast, has been
working on the pension matter for the
past three years, he said yesterday.
Numerous conferences with the late
James J. Hill, head of the road in his
lifetime, were held in those three
years, but Mr. MeMillan was unable to
get the plans worked out.
He has held several conferences
with Louis W. Hill, president of the
Great Northern, and other officials of
the road, and yesterday received the
approval of his plan by these officials.
It will become effective September
16, the anniversary of the birth of
James J. Hill, and formal announce­
ment will be made to the veterans of
the road at the annual gathering and
banquet of the veterans' association to
be held in St. Paul on that date.
The pension system will be a me­
morial to the Empire Builder and the
annual meeting will take the charac­
ter of a memorial meeting to him,
Mr. McMillan said. The pension sys­
tem will cover all employees who have
been in the service twenty years or
more. Each will receive 1 per cent
for each year's continuous service on
his average compensation for the past
ten years of service. It will provide
for compulsory retirement at the age
of 70 and voluntary retirement at the
age of 65.
There are now 630 members of the
Veterans' association who have earned
membership by more than twenty
years of continuous service with the
road. Some of these have spent a half
century in the service of the Great
Northern and many have been em­
ployed on the road for more than forty
years.
The plans for the annual meeting
of the veterans have been worked out
by Mr. McMillan. A business session
will be held at the Great Northern
building that day and at 7 p. m. the
banquet at the Great Northern cafe­
teria.
I J. W. Hunter to Open Meat Market.
Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Hunter return
I ed Monday from a trip to their old
home in southern Wisconsin. They
ihave been gone a month,
Mr. Hunter is now arranging to
open a meat market in the Doloff
block on First street, in the store re­
cently vacated by Ted Young where
he operated a cigar store. He pur
chased fixtures in St. Paul on-his way
home and expects to open his shop
about Sept. 15. Mr. Hunter is ex
perienced in the meat business, having
for years been interested with Ernest
I Fecker in the management of the
Everybody's meat market on Central
I avenue. The Hunters made the entire
trip east in their Dodge roadster, cov
ering a distance in excess of 2500
miles. On the way down Mr. Hunter
kept an accurate account of his gas
oline and oil consumption and found
that for the 671 miles the average gas
consumption was A3 3-4 miles per gal
Ion of gasoline. One and one-half gal­
lons of oil was used. The roads were
very heavy a large portion of the dis­
tance, particularly the sand roads of
northern Wisconsin. The run home
from St. Paul was made in 25 hours, a
record that few will be able to sur­
pass.
A Deserved Promotion.
James A. Sheeran, traveling pas­
senger agent for the Soo Line, with
headquarters in this city, has been
promoted to the position of city ticket
agent of the So® Line at Winnipeg,
and left for that city the fore part of
this week.
Mr. Sheeran is a young man of
marked ability, •onrteous and pleas­
ant, and has a host of friends in Mi­
not and this pari of the state, who,
while they are sorry to have him
leave here, join in wishing him all
success in his new position, which car­
ries larger responsibilities and is in
the nature of a deserved promotion.
His successor, M. Ward Wilson of St.
Paul, has arrived at Minot and is al­
ready hard at work on the territory.
Dr. Myklestad t* Return About Oct. 1
A recent letter from Dr. Myklestad
states that the doctor has been acting
as assistant surgeon on the. general
staff of surgeons Raving charge of the
public hospitals in the city of Berlin.
He writes that they are having an
abundance of material to work upon.
He expects to go to Vienna for a few
weeks and from there will go to Nor­
way for a short visit, returning to Mi­
not to resume his practice here about
Oct 1.
v?
