tatc Historical Society
ANEY
OUNTY
EPUBLICAN
Vol. 21. No. 43.
FORSYTH, MISSOURI, TUUKSDAY, SEPTKMHElt 7, 1916
Six Pages.
Senator Reed's Qjeer Speech
It would be unfair to ho'd th nat
ional administration responsible (or the
queer notions with wihch Senator Reed
entortaiaeJ his colleagues in a Senile
speech Tuesday. He must have act
ed on his own motion, either in a spirit
oi envy of Senator Hamilton Lewis or
out of the desire to attract attention,
which seems to be a congenial weak
ness of our junior senator. He dots
not seem to care whether he is set
down as a statesman or as a mounte
bank, so he gets noticed in the dis
patches.
There is no more novelty than truth
in his prediction that the election of
Hughes wiil mean war. It is a silly
contention on which the Democrats
took out a copy right easly in the
campaign. There is nothing that Mr.
Hughes has said or done and there is
nothing in his record to support such
a wild supposition. But we must con
cede that our junior senator found
something novel in the way of alleged
argument. "If Hughes is to be elect
ed to the presidency," said Senator
Reed, "then it is notice to all the
world that America has repudiated
Wilson's policy of peace (or the Roosevelt-Hughes
policy o( war. Let the
war be not misunderstood. We know,
the world knows, that Woodrow Wilson
will maintain peace unless the nation's
honor is assailed. Thoughtful men
know that a president advised by Roose
velt in accord and agreement with
Roosevelt, will stir up war if possible."
In the first place Roosevelt will not
run Hughes. In the second, Roose
velt will not get this country into war.
On the contrary he was a peacemaker
and was awarded the Nobel peace
prize (or his services in that direction.
But it is the Reed conception of the
viewpoint that is curious. Is our free
dom from war due to the world's recog
nition that it. could not pick a fight
out of Mr. Wilson? Does the realiz
ation that our country would not back
any of its demands by (orce insure a
a quicker response to them? Is there
any country that would violate our
rights solely to draw us into war with
it. Is there any country so eager to
matrh a fiorM mil Vi United Stati at
to rejoice in the defeat of a pacifist
president?
This nonsense is of almost as high a
quality as Senator Reed'i further pre
diction that the election of Hughes
would end our national prosperity.
Globe-Democrat.
The people who think that Wood
row Wilson kept us out of the big war
should stop to consider how we could
have gotten into the war except as the
all? of other nations now fighting a
condition unthinkable.
William J. Bryan's idea oi the tariff
commission is that it will "please cer
tain people" and "will not do any
harm." Probably that is Wilson not
ion, also.
"Mr Gw4 Mm, 0Y
Democratic Extravagance.
With the Democratic administration
in power the financial condition of the
state is now pitiable. Its plight is not
due to loss of revenue. The receipts
from genetal and special taxation sur
pass all records. The state institutions
are crippled. In spite of the secrecy
as to financial conditions anomalous in
a free government, it is known that
many of the state institutions scantly
subsist on borrowed money or funds
doled out by the governor acting under
a belated and uncoastitutional "econ
omy order" of his own devisin,". The
last General Assembly overapprop-iaf
fd the estimated revenue 85,500,000
The governor approved ail but 83,000
000 of this. O.i January 26 1916 alter
the first half oJ the biennura had elaps
ed, he issued his "economy order,"
seeking to do t o years' retrenching in
one. A month prior to this "ecornmy
order." The Supreme Court of the
state ordered the return of 8334,189."
32, which had on July the 3 1915,
been wrongful'y diverted from the pub
lie school fund to the general revenue
fund under a new and fanciful inter
pretation of the language of an appro
priation act set forth in a purported
opinion by the attorney general which
he repudiated before the test suit was
called for trial. The present Demo
cratic administration added 83,790,734
91 to the cost of government in its
first two years over the preceding two
years of the Hadley administration.
The appropriations of salaries alone for
1915 and 1916 exceed those for 1911
aud 1912 by 8454,262. The last
two general assemblies made unneces
sary increases of state expenditure.
Such extravagence and incompetency
are responsible for the humiliating con
of our state finances. Republican
State Platform.
The working men of Missouri have
not forgotten the months of pinching
need they faced as the result of the
Wilson-Underwood tariff,' preceding
the beginning of the great European
war which forced a restoration of pro
tection, in large part, by natural con
ditions. Thousands were out of work
and thousands more on reduced time.
The free soup-house and breadline
were seen in St. Louis and Kansas City
and perhaps in many smaller cities of
the state.
Henry Lamm has always been a
good citizen. He has always stood for
the best things in state government.
The question of his honesty has never
been raised by anybody. There is no
room for doubt as to his courage. He
has vigorous views as to public affairs
and he has been perfectly frank in
speaking about them to the public.
He's a clean, four-square man. Those
who know best unhesitatingly declare
that he fits closely the urgent needs of
the state just now in the gubernational
office.
- 7
Cfcnnr
Tw Cnr'tVpt AitAi'iT
Law and Precdent.
There sppears to be some misunder
standing and even some misinformat
ion throughout the state on the subject
of whose duty it is to select the chair
man and other officers of the Republi
can State Committee. There does not
seem to be any real occasion for such
misunderstanding and any real justifi
cation for misinformination. The law
could not be plainer or more precise
in its terms on this subject.
Section 5880 of the new Missouri
primary election law, after stating how
the election of members of county com
mittees, district committees and the
state committee shall be effected, pro
vides specifically as follows with refer
ence to the organization of the state
committee.
"Which State Committee, being
composed of two members from each
congressional district in the State, shall
meet at noon on the fourth Tuesday
( August at some point in the State
to de designated by the then State
Committee and organize by the elect
ion of a chairman who shall be chair
man of the state committee, and by
the election cl a Secretary and treasur
er and after having so organized, shall
meet with the party nomineess for state
offices, Congressman, State Senators,
Representatives, and forthwith formul
ate a stale platform for their party, and
make public the same not later than 6
o'clock in the aft:tnoori on the follow
ing day."
This places the responsibility for the
party organization where it belongs, in
the hatdi of the Republican electors
and their chosen representatives. It
r cognizss the fact that, above every
thing else and everybody eise the rank
and fi.e of the party are interested in
Republican success ani in the format
ion of a campaign organization that
will further that success in the broadest
sense. It is the party's organization,
owing no obligitions except to the
part;.
It has been claimed that a preced
ent has been established to allow the
candidate for governor to nane the
chairman of the committee. Up to
19 J4, the Republican State convent
ions selected the chairman, jist as
they selected the candidates, by ballot
of the delegates, and no candidate was
consulted. In 1904 when selection
by the committee itself became a rule
Thomas S. Neidringhaus was chosen at
the suggestion of Walter S. Dickey.
The candidate for governor was not
consulted. In 1908 Mr. Dickey him
self was selected against the opposition
of Otto Stifel and Jeptha Howe. Mr.
Hadley was not consulted. Ij 1912
John C. McKinley, the candidate for
governor, wanted Charles D. Moiris,
but the activity of Otto Stifel, E. L.
Morse and Jeptha Howe resulted in
the selection of Politte Elvins. Since
that time, the United States Senator,
formerly chosen by the legislature, has
been a candidate before the people
and the candidate for this office, by
reasons ol its organized importance, is
now at the head of the ticket. If the
preference of the candidates is to be
taken into account, therefore, his cer
tainly should be considered.
The preference of candidates on the
ticket should, of course, have weight
and consideration if these candidates
agree but if they don't and cannot get
together, it is no reflection of discourt
esy to any of them if the committee
proceeds to perform the duty imposed
upon t by the statute.
That is precisely what it did at Jefler
frscn City and is the only thing it
could consistently have done.
Senator E. L. Moore, of Lamar, does
not think that Col. Gardner's Derao
cra :y is such as to call for Democratic
support on the ground of party loyalty.
In a very recent letter to Omar D. Gray,
of St. Louis the Senator declares "in
his home town of St. Louis, he (Gard
ner) only a few years ago was rated
offi -tally as an Independent in poli
tics." If the colonel has himself been
an Independent, he is hardly in po
sition to complain at the independence
of others who, (or good reason, do not
(eel attracted to his candidacy.
Missouri Republicans United.
The Missouri Democrats who have
hugged the fond hope that the Re
publicans would be so rent bv factions
as to make a united and harmonious
campaign impossible must be amazed
to see factional bickerings ended with
in a week aftT the state convention.
Whatever disaffection there was did
not extend to the rank and file of the
party. It was personal in character
and was confined to a few. Never be
fore in the history of the state have the
Republicans been more eager to turn
out the state administration and re
place the incompetent state officials
with worthy Republicans, committed
to reforms that will be worth while.
Nver have the prospects for such a
consummation been brighter. Conse
quently, there was hot indignation
throughout the state over signs of di
visions among leaders at the outset of
the campaign. The Democrats could
not restrain their glee. A divided Re-
pjbticanisra was their one hope of
victory in November.
We shall not try to determine whe
ther it was politicial wisdom, party
loyalty or good sportsmanship that so
quickly and happily ended the squabb
le. It is sufficient to note that it is
enden. It is also safe to predict that
the campaign will be waged more vig
orously and harmoniously than if there
had been no trouble. The leaders
wilf view with each other in activity.
Nobody can afford to have any doubt
cast on his loyaltr, before or after the
election. Ehere will be rivalry in
generosity during the campaign.
Everybody will strive to avoid causes
of friction. This does not mean that
rivalries are ended and that the politi
cal millennium has come, but it does
mean that good sense and party loyalty
requi.e the subordination of individual
desires to the success of the Republi
can ticket. The candidates will stand
or fall together. What helps one will
help another aud what hurts one will
hurt the rest.
The Republicans have worthy nomi
nees for state office. Their appeals to
the people. The Republicans offer
the only concrete programr The
Demoorats make some promises, but
they are linked with approval of an od
ious state administration. Independ
ent citizens and independent news
papers are praising the course of the
Republicans. A united and wise
leadership will bring a sweeping vic
tory. Globe-Democrat.
legitimate or War Prosperity
Oh, talk not to me of prosperity that
is eating out the very heart ol our
boasted Christian civilization, a pros
perity that makes a mockery of all the
nobler sentiments rf the race, a pros
perity that is based upon human hate,
and that bids defiance to the heaven
sent message of old "Peace on earth,
good will toward men." I prefer i
normal to in abnormal prosperity.
I believe in "ringing out the false"
and "ringing in the true." I prefer
the kind of prosperity that we enjoyed
for 16 years under a Republican pro
tective tir.fi. I favor the kind of
prosperity that is the direct and logical
result ol wise legis'ation, discriminat
ing in favor of 'he An.ercan farmer,
the American mechanic, and his Cana
dian and Europ an competitor. The
Underwood tar f! la-, and in fact no
Democratic taiiff It thit has ever
been enacted, hi fv mide th.t dis
crimination. Congressman Rodcn
berg. The fact that we ar g iing to have
an eight-hour work-Jay in thii country
will increase the urgent i.exi of a pro
tective tariff, since it will widen the
difference between the Amerigo and
European labor standards, which differ
ence has maae protection sn imperat
ive American policy.
When you hear a Democrat boasting
about our "war orders" prosperity, you
may safely size him op as either a fool
or a demagogue. He simply can't be
honest if be is intelligent.
Strong Democratic Testimony
The Democratic St. Louis Post-Dispatch
has been consistently fighting
the crooked Democratic gang at Jef
ferson City and it isn't for them now.
Its comments on the Democratic state
platform, just adopted, are directly and
severely denunciatory. Every good
citizen of Missouri ought to read them:
"The buncombe of platform rhetoric
has perhaps never had a finer illus
tration than in some of the insincere
claims of 'he Democratic set of forrau
lated political views and principles. It
unreservedly indorses the wise, efficient
and capable administration" of one of
of the cheapest and nastiest outfits of
statehnuse ringsters that ever handicap
ped progress in Missouri or any other
State.
"Particular party credit aud distinct
ion are claimed because under an auto
matic law of many years' standing the
funds (or public education have shown
a slight increase, so that now they to
tal about one-third of what a State of
Missouri's wealth and population ought
to devote to this paramount purpose.
"How a political crime may be
changed by platform buncombe into a
political virtue is shown by the refer
ence to the porch-climbing invasion of
the school fund. This, disgraceful
plot is euphemistically termed a move
to have "the apportionment of school
funds forever settled by decision of the
Supreme Court" and is specifically in
dorsed. "This act of political bankruptcy
was committed in secret. The public
did not find if out for several weeks.
A court test was refused for several
more weeks by the ringsters in control
of the machinery of the State Govern
ment and was only resorted to as a
means of escape (rora an uprising of
universal indignation. To point with
pride to so heavy a record of party lia
bilities is self stultification. It is not
a very comfortable platform (or the
new ticket run on."
Judge Henry Lamm is not hall
hearted in the assurance that when the
people o( Missouri elect him to the
governorship, as they tully intend to
do in November, he will clean out the
gang which has disgraced the State at
Jefferson City. This clean up wiil not
be merely a partisan shift, but it will
be a change with a high business mot
ive and a real reform purpose. The
campaign in behalf of Judge Lamm's
candidacy is one to "open the books"
and to put the state government on a
business basis
There is some comment on the fact
that Gordon, the most offensive of the
state house ringsters at Jtfferson City,
was successful at the Democratic pri
maries, while others who were not so
rank, were turned down. This only
illustrates the claim that if you are go
ing to swipe something, you will get
off easier if you take a million dollars
than if you take a ham.
J9
'k.i V
u nitt -
"Willingness to Change
Much publicity is being given by
the Democratic press to the fact that
Judge B. B. Lindsey of Denver, form
er Democrat and Roosevelt supporter
in 1912, has announced that he will
support Woodrow Wilson. In announc
ing his reasons Judge Lindsey endors
es Wilson's "willing to change from
his former position."
If the willingness to change from
former positions will be an asset in
this campaign. Woodrow Wilson will
have a walk -away. Never has there
been a President who has been as un
stable in his views as the present in
cumbent. There is not a single im
portant questiod that he has not been
on both sides of in the last few years.
No man knows today where Wilson will
stand tomorrow on any public question
If shiftiness, inconsistency and ability
to straddle on both sides of a question
will appeal to the voting public, then
Woodrow VVilson will be a formidable
candidate.
Revenue.
Under the Underwood Ftee Trade
bill imports for the fisical year ending
June 30th, 1916, amounted to 12,198
000,000 this being by far the largest
known in any year in American history
The tariff duties collected during the
same year amounted to 8211,866,000.
Had the same rate of duty been col
lected during the last year as was aver
aged during the Payne-Aldrich bill,
approximately 8426,000,000 would
have been collected in tariff duties.
This would have been over twice the
amount that has been collected would
have made obnoxious war taxes un
necessary and would have paid the ex
penses of the government, even under
the present extravagant administration.
Col. Gardner promised in his Jefferson
City speech that he was going to prove
that the government of Missouri had
been well managed under the Demo
cratic administration. Now that the
colonel ha: thus put himself on record
in (avor of the Democratic "mess" at
the state capital, let the campaign pro
ceed. His decision to be bold rather
than prudent ought to eliminate all
doubt as to Judge Lamm's election.
We believe it does.
About four years more ol the same
sort of thing at Jefferson City would
put the state government in the hands
of a receiver. As Gardner proposes to
defend the existing regime and prove
that it's a good thing, it is safe to as
sume that his election would mean its
continuance.
It is a ctuel blow to the Democrats
that Walter S. Dickey is taking an act
ive interest in the campaign and is to
be within consulting distance of those
who manage it for the Republicans.
Those are conditions that have never
boded well for the Democracy.
.i HMf
liTlimnrtrlM
