V
PUTNAM COUN
ERALB,
i. i
t
O
:0
t
'I V
"i - .
0
10
O
o
VOLUME XIV.
C00KEVIJyLE, TENNESSEE, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7. 1916.
NUMBER 36
mi i iinn in i ii ii iii 1 1 Mini i ii winHiwMHiiiiii7w!Biw
BIG ' AUCTION SALE
OF . THE BEAUTIFUL
in
W (P le) A f P
TO
U i3 avj uJ
ME
IMI
BEGINNING PROMPTLY AT 10:30 A. M.
DTD
Ay,
WTEME
We will sell more than 100 Beautiful Residence Lots and a Number of Small Acreage Tracts
, This property is owned by Maddux Bros, and B. C. Hix and will sell for the High Dollar, Regardless of
Price or Value. It is located right on Dixie Avenue and is in sight of the new State School. It is laid out
in an excellent sub-division with broad streets and alleys. A beautiful park filled with huge oak, beech and
other forest trees, with a-fine spring in the center, has been dedicated to the buyers of this property, and
shall be owned and controlled by them forever. "
TERMS--One-Third, Cash. Balance in One and Two Years
PUTNAM COUNTY
The soil of Putnam County will grow any product known
to field orchard or garden and develop them to the highest
state of perfection. Fruits and vegetables reach the rich
est flavor and color. ?
There is no favorite crop. The farmer is permitted to
make his own choice with the assurance of most profitable
yields. .
r Pure bred cattle and hogs are being introduced with much
profit.
Putnam has more phosphate than any other county in the
state.
An abundance of coal is found in the eastern section of
the county.
A quarry of the purest litho stone is within a few miles
of Cookeville.
. . The home of more than one hundred varieties of profita
ble timber.'
Some of the finest water possibilities in the state. ...
A high type of citizenship and the gamest in the South,
with an educational spirit in every community.
Absolutely pure air and an altitude free frcm chills and
fevers and all climatic sickness. . y
Wood manufactories in every section of the county and
six prosperous banks in the county.
: An almost inexhaustible supply of sandstone, suitable for
building purposes.
Over a quarter million dollars in first class pikes.
More miles of railroad than any other county between
Knoxvjlle and Nashville.
Rich limestone soil easily susceptible to fertilizer and es
pecially adapted to truck and fruit growing.
Putnam County has made larger gains in population and
'mineral developments between cens us periods than any
other county in the state. ..
Ranges in altitude from 6O9 to 2000 feet. , r.i
Has the very best educational facilities in town and
country. .
Largest poultry producing county in the state.
Second largest mule producing county in the state.
COOKEVILLE .
Cookeville, the county seat of Putnam County, has a pop
ulation of 3,500 and is growing' rapidly. Cookeville has six
passenger trains daily; ten free pikes; a grain elevator; two
brick plants; picture show; two harness factories; three
produce companies; two live and progressive banks; a ten
ton ice factory , unsurpassed hotels; second largest poultry
market in tin state; nine rural routes; a self-sustaining
water and light plant; five good churches with active con
gregations; an altitude of 1117 feet above sea level; pure
freestone water that is medicine itself; a thoroughly equip
ped machine shop; a first class bakery, sanitary in every
respect; a garden for practically every residence in the
city; a flouring mill with 100 barrel capacity; a school pop
ulation of approximately 1,000; double daily auto service to
adjoining towns; a marble yard where the finest of tomb
stone work is done; a bottling works complete in every re
spect; timber interests whose handlings are shipped direct
to European markets; a wholesale hardware firm that is a
success in every particular; a box factory employing a large
number of hands at good wages; three garages, each with
a repair shop and public filling gasoline station; a wholesale
grocery firm whose business goes into big. figures annually;
more concrete and stone sidewalks than any 'other town of
its population in the state; lumber firms whose output
means thousands of. dollars monthly to the town; an overall
factory that employs 60 hands with an output of more than
50 dozen daily; state school book depository ior several
counties; a high school With a two year college course add
ed; two newspapers that covef the county completely; three
livery stables, all of which furnish auto service; central
point for fourteen upper Cumberland counties; location of
the State Polytechnic Institute, costing $140,000, the only
institution of its kind in the state, and free to anyone living!
in the state; Feieral and Postoffice building costing $125,-'
000; two telephone systems that reach every section of the
country, and the home office of the Gainesboro Telephone
Company, covering a number of Tennessee counties and ex
tending into Kentucky, doing a business of $75,000 annual
ly; a Commercial Club of 100 active members; free city
mail, delivery beginning September 16, 1916,
The New State School
The new state school with its magnificent, new, brick
buildings, broad camDus and beautiful shad in in nicht of
this DroDertv. This school is built and rim hv the atnto nf
Tennessee. One great main building and two splendid
dormitories are already completed, and others are under
construction. This is the only school of its kind in the state
and present prospects indicate a full attendance for the
first term. .
Buy this property near this good school and educate your
children. A child without an education today is but a- com
mon slave. Give your little fellows a chance. -
You can't lose by buying this good property. Regardless
of what you pay, it always sells for more. Within two
years this land will be selling for three times what you pay
now. People are just learning how valuable this upland is
and it is getting higher every day. Get in on this good
tract and make some money. This upland is the coming
country and offers great opportunities for life, health, hap
piness and prosperity.
Statistics show that there in mnro mnnow tnaAa in tk
crease in real estate values than from all other sources com
bined. 'One good investment is often worth a lifetime of
labor. A little money invested in this good land, may start
you on xne roaa w weaitn.
When vou buv real estate voif hnv
some land so. you can truthfully say. OUR country. Never1'
again, between now and the end of time, will you have a
chance to buy this beautiful level land at your own price.
Opportunity knocks once on every man's door and is now
pounding on yours. Come and buy.
COOKEVILLE IS THE MODEL CITY OF TENNESSEE The Standard by Which Others are Judged
For a home or an investment the property is unexcelled. It is on the best street in town ana1 is on the building side of Cookeville.- It
is bound to double and treble in value .
FREE! I FREE! . t FREE!
Beautiful Building Lot $25.00 in Gold Bag of Silver
, , - : : " " ' t : ' ' ' : . , " .
? ...
J
IT. And many other Valuable Presents. Everyone present has a free and equal chance at all prizes, whether you buy anything of not. . I
4 L.aaies ana gins are especially mvitea, ana
A Big Day in a Good Town!
some special presents have been; arranged for them
Balloon Ascension, Band Concert and Daylight Fireworks !
TUT
: il.il-
EX REALTY
COMPANY
14
Boiling Springs, Tenn.
6
