, 1 " ,11'
HendersoDville
THE HOSTLER
The Mecca for Summer -Tourists
,.r ;
Henderson County's
Home Paper -
VOL. XXIII. NO.
7 r
HENDERS ON VILLE, IN JG JHURSp, SEPT., 7, 1916
fir--
PRICE FIVE CENTS
UGA TO HAVE
HI COIF COURSE
WILL HEllDERSOIILlf
: EXTERMINATE RAG WEED?
POLITICS Ri COUNTY
iiuGHEs-BRur m : -
ORGANIZED MONDAY
Eit'Mecti Hole Links. Laid Out by Ex
pertDam to be Finished TMs r
Mnth.
Cincinnati Physician Passes Tip to
Our Town Found 20 Specimens
In Monument Enclosure.
Several Independent Democratic Can. j O. T. F. BIjtlie Elected President
diaates for county - Uuicers - speech by H. A. Gudsrer of Ashp.
Mr., Kogers Active.
Tllle Xumber Join Club.
. i i ii - ; i it : ! " ' i I
KAN
" ' ' " ' ' '
flie owners of the Kanuga Lake and
club property are going right ahead
with the work of repaying the' pro
perty from the effects of the" big rain
orm tins summer ana-it is announc-
ed that the new dam will be completed !
w n.tober 1. E. B. Gresham. manaeer r
o - the club, will remain there all win- tay,wlltI tne weed and consequently
-. and look after the improvements I nSlff8 livinS in. that city
i, i-- made b .are no trouble to any great extent.
When asked about the proposed dam J fJ ?tuJ and for H1 good of
a,e suit against Mr. Stephens by Hen- I nrithl 7 hT
Hon county, Mr. Gresham didn't say i J 2?S J at which time the
v-nrd but looked a if h thon-ht- weed comes to maturity, some meas
.cre'i nothing to it " 6 Hnt- jure of extermination should" be brought
nans" have been perfected for the ' 1 see 1 f any of the weeds
many winter tourists to this section. I . ' , . ", , ,
Rit bv far. the best news that has - A case of th B kind happened here
from Kanuea. in a lonr.timP is
the announcement that they are to111' 0hlo a prominent physician and
have a splendid 18-hole golf course. ' a hay fever vm, was visiting here,
The Plans for the lfaks have been and. after leaving wrote the Hustler
completed by R. H. M. Hull of. Savan-. RS4 2 JJ?.YB: , 4.
nr.h Ga., one of the best golf experts ! -Yitmg your town today I saw the
in the south. He was engaged by th& ,Coder l monument. In
management of Kanuga to map out ' spec-ting it I found the small enclos
and supervise ,the construction of the ! ure about . lt appropriately, possibly
new links t unnecessarily, planted in forget-me-
Alr. Huil has made the first tee in nots-. them I found twenty
front of the club, the first hole being sp!c,-nLens f tn ra wed' T
on a knoll across an arm of the : BenS a nay fever victim I at once
lake to the north, and the next sixteen ?ro,ce.d1ed 1 upr?ot eyeFy?0n,e r tnem
holes going in the same direction Asheville has almost killed the rag
through a beautiful valley and over the wf4ed fm ut ber boundaries and
hills, returning to the eighteenth hole ith" hay fever. Why-not beautiful
-t the club house Hendersonville, too?" :
U Mr. Hull, who has played over many few words fromxthe pen of
courses throughout the country, says r- Mee are - passed along for the
he has never seen anywhere a location oughtfur consideration of our town
more beautiful for a golf course, and author ftes and citizens Like Dr Mo.
predicts that when .the links are eom- Kee .s,ays; "WTiy. not beautiful Hender
pleted the best rolfers ijn the country ,sonYUIe' too?
play over them. "
Mr. Hull having completed the plans
for the links, has returned to Savan
nah. '
There has been a continual demand
for an eighteen-hole course at Kanuga
for some tkne.and the management
was planning for just such an under-,.',
taking when th dam hroke this sum-! -
mer. This caused -them to revise
their plans, build a -smaller:-lake- and;
use a part of the formerlake. basin, for
pre construction ui.va-course..; -
for tho T,ast fivi ftirslnit It. was W.
miles from the dub house, and the new
course will start righj-in-front of the
club, so that golfers wiU have no . management has ' been mailingv-cata-trouble
in getting to the links when logues in response $o requests 5 that
the new course s completed.' '? -have come from practically every state
The new course win be" available for-in the' Union. ' :"' '
Hendersonville." and all local - hotels. ,- , improvements have been made on
The management of the club is oing i fontids and buildings during "the
to join the Southern Golf Ateociat'on summer. The athleUc field has been
and standard tournaments wiU be held regraded and put in excellent condi
at which both professional and ama-ion The buildings have been thor
teur records will stand. It 4s plan.. ousny renovaked nd needed eiuip
ned to have the -tournaments either ment has been added; - v - .
follow or precede the Asheville tourn- The school has a very - efficient
ament, thus giving a longer seasoncforgtaff 'for the coming year, a ' larger
golfing in the mountains of Westejrn proportion of teachers . to students
North Carolina. n fhzn any other Souther preparatory
Kanuga Club and members of thoi gchooi for boys a4 probably a higher
club will offer two" cups aa -prizes- and "priced staff for the same number of
it has been' proposed that the Hender-- students. Mr. H. I. Nicholls- 61 New
sonville Board of Trade- offer a cup i ton. New Jersey, has been added to
also. - , . - -..v'the 'English departmanfc Mr? Nicholls
A map of tte--new" course Das oeen j school
made and construction work will com-, work and aas proven a teacher of uii
mence this month. ' t ? ' ;- usual' lability; He will also assist in
..." directing the" ath-i activile??of the
APPIE BLOSSOMS IN SEPTEMBER. -schooL ? Mr. Niehoil -will -give in-
Monday Dr. AJ C; Tebeau was- ex
hibiting a cluster of apple blossoms
which ha nulled from a tree in -his
orchard September 4. Tht tree. whUe Public Sehool Opened Monday Local
being full of well developed apples, ; personal Items.of Interest,
has made a -second "growth -this year! . (Special to the-Hustler.)
and is blooming right along. The J Hore S!hoe, Sept 6. School open
doctor thinks, that although they ed here Monday morning with Joe
might not come to - maturity,- apples Capps of Fruitland, as -principal and
will develop from these blossoms be-. MiS8 a-. nreenwood of - .this place,
fore frost. Cherry trees have been assistant. . '
observed to bloom , twiee intone cum- , Miss Escoffler 'of Charleston, S. C,
mer, but for apple trees, to bloom is visiting her sister,-. Mrs. Edwin
twice is something jiew in this., part. jofefiflOCL : ' ,
of .the county. Dr. Tebeau has . a fine Robert Lockaby of Pisgah Forest,
orchard on his place on the edge of Bpent Sunday here with friends,
the city. . ' ; i Mrs; Z. T. Pinner has returned to
r : !her home' in Pumaria, S. C. after
DIED FROM THE INJURIES. v spending aome ltime here.
. i Misn Sue Cannon has gone to Bre-
J. Harris. . a plain, honest farmer,
and cood citizen, living about eight -
miles - out in the . country, in Bainie
section, died. Monday at the Paitton.
Memorial hospital, In this city the re-
suit of a run-away accident Monday.
Mp Harris was going home on the day
uamea, in a wagon drawn uy ww.
ine animal became frightened ana raa
away, throwing Mr. Harris out of the
wagon. He became . entangled in the
lines, and was dragged a-considerable j
distane before he got relief and was j
released from his entanglement. He
was Badly mangled about the face and
arms.. He was about fifty yers of age.
TO WORK GRAVEYARD.
.
-1
All who iiave relatives and iriends;
burton in tiiA AM kti VnnA rrs vp-vard '
--X M VS - "
are requested to meet there STeptem-;
ber 16, when the "erave yard will be
treated to a generallcleaning up. V All L
are requested", to "pfotide t themselves C
witn proper tools for such wora. ;
" .' V -, . -
LABOR DAY QUIET. ; r V
. . j
Monday, September 4. Labor Day a.
ed here.' The pos,tofflce kept holiday I
hours and the banks were closed for
the day. . .
auonai holiday, was quietly opserv- i
It has ,been proved that the rag
weed, a weed with wh'ch everybody is
familiar, is the cause of hay fever and
in many cities campaigns have" been
inaugurated with a view of extermi-
Z t , - Asnevule tney
- ha.- n.early succeeded in. doing
recently. Dr. E. S. 'McKee of Cincin-t
Blue Ridge School for
Boys to Open Thursday
The next session of the Blue Ridge
School' for Boys opens on Thursday
of ' next . weekir" September clC"lPros-'
aiadKatS aiitliireaM-eitfonmehft
W'A ! ter..en.
two
boys were- enrolled, representing
eight states. During lh.e. summer theri
structioa in-musie tp those-desinng.n.
HOUSE SHOE NEWS.
TflTa. where -She has a posit on a?.
Aah in the rrraded schooL
Quite a number of folks from here
attended the revival meeting ak Mills
RiTer gnnday and Sunday night,
Mrg p, uoffitt is recovering from
gastric fever, after being confined to
ner hed for ten oays.
. , .. :i
ptthchASES SEVERAL LOTS
ON HXMAN; HEIGHTS.
''
Through Ewbank & Ewbank. local
iocai real estate agents. C. J. Ketner
Cf Georgetown, S. C, has purchased
gix or. seven handsome, lots, situated
Ati-th Asheville road near the Patton
Memorial hospital,, a part, of the Hy!(
man Heights property. vThe purchase
price. was not jrfven.
M. i . 'f
FINE APPLES. I..' .'"
I-. C. K.. Hale-of IHendersonville; Route
Vni-of our mo&t, value 1 .suhscribers.
treated ne tsusuvr "rrZ
apples the othe day,-.for .which.we
herewith tender our thanks.- -.-The
largest one in the bunch weighed fif-
ten ounces - ; . .
; All those .merchants who advertise
in the HusUer, regular, are live ones,
Thope who do not are dead ones.: .
Offered Paper
By ca
tisements in: this pper you can often save
money on your purchases. The things you need
may be offered just a Kttle -bit cheaper today than they -will
be at any other time. 1 ; , .
The new rug for the parlor, the new din
ing room table, the new suit, the sack of flour, the
pair of shoes or the newlhat may be advertised today at a
saving worth while v" ' :
Don't lay this paper down until you have
j read every advertisement Jnr its columns. Economi
cal people do their buying through advertising and they are
- putting money in the; bank ty so doing.
Hr. EvfianK Raisind i -:( S
fnnfl Tor BiieiSolirs
E. W. Embank, president of .the CiU
zens National Bank, has undertaken $
iiumanitaiian work ; which . is excep
tionally- worthy - of commendatiok;' As
local sub-treasurer ot 4he BrF. B
Permaneni ;;.Bliii(i; "Reliet-iWati: Ftmd,
h -iyndsisr K-substanGaJ suiir:l2P:t!itS'lof cTrJa rK'era.al--
to'train the many' blinded
BritislL "French "and" Blgian soldiers
in' trades ixoi erulrm sitiO 'that
they iciin Support themselves and their
families la spite 1 or; their "misfortune.
.The -blinded soldiers are unusually
deserving. -Their Uvea have been per
mahentlyw reeked in the- defense of
their mes. -families and countries.
They urte rescued trom their appar-
nfil.th-ii-M fttBv th 'establish-
liMtitti LTirt: hiifilnesftuiike
system kit -training" schools., employ
ment AReaciesl - work-shops - and ex
fhaiMa rhifh create a -market
tor blind-made products, - ; . a-, u. jacason, u.. m. wniiawr, ts.
Their own governments; being over- Wall, H. Ov Hudson, W. H. Gra,yM. T.
burdened with many more immediate ; Pace, R. N. ;ReedV...C. E. Dameron, A.
and vittli-prbblems, cannot either all S. Gallimore, W. A. Slatteryt J. L. Mc
present mr for years to come establish Minn,. C D, .Nix, L. F. Hood, W. F."
such a -cistern of institutions as aae-,
ouately -or jcomplejtely as is desirable
trom-a humanitarian -stand point.
f amferiica will help; almost all the
inany -xmf brfUnate" blinded -soldiers
can. -w2thni a very few years, be re-
stored to-4k Teai useruiness ana i
leaattoomparaJiTe prosperity and
jtappjneBa.-..----- ; ' :
- If--America . on the other hand,
lenores thi noble world-duty, many
of .our i f ellow-huiuan beings through
-rntionally .deservinc of aid, :may
tw nonrtpmnpfi to a slow :and misera-
w AtAi of novertv and despair as
nubile iharges upon theircommuni -
ties. . I the work will be completed- Already
JThe B. F. D. permanent. Blind Re-.-the offices of Ithe city tax colector and
lief War Fund, which is already or-' chief of police have heen moved into
ganized in practically every State and the new building from their former
in several hundred cities, has been location in the Wanteska Inn, and
founded by leading-American bankers, Mr. Brooks and Chief Powers are now
philanthropists and business men. comfortably housed in their new quar
Among its American organizers are kers. . '
thP Hon, Elihu -Root, Vincent Astor, This handsome building including
August Belmont, the Hon. Lyman j.
Gage, U. S. Senator Thomas P. Gore,
the Hon. Myron T. Herrick, the Hon.
Robert Bacon, Otto H. Kahn; Whitney
Warren, Joseph Widener, and George
Alexander Kessler.
Its honorary treasurers are Frank
A. Vanderlip. President of the Nation
al 3ity Bank; Sir Edward Holden,
Chairman of the London City "and Mid- j
land Bank; and M, Georges Pallaln,
Governor General - of -. the Bank of
France. The patronage of the Kins !
J and-fiueen of England, the King and
Queen f Belgium and the president
of - France' has been obtained - for the
distribution of the- fund in their re
spective countries. . i ;
MriSwbank, we think,-deserves gen
eral and. generous support . in his
public spirited local leadership of this
pressing needed charity. Every hu
mane and large hearted person desir
in gto assist this good work ahould ad
dress; their '- contribukdons. to -Mr.: Ew
bank at the Citizen's National . Bank,
andhe. In-;turn. rwill forward them to
Mr. Frank A Vanderlip at the Fund's
J American headquarters; 590:Flftk ave
nueNew . York. . .-r
. -. .. j , 1 ." . .", ". . .". ..a c-::
: .The long rperiod of inactivity .wnich
tho'flendeTsonville flredepartmerjt
had been -enjoying was ; broken:, last
week with two . fire-alarms, the f flrs,t
being arflue burning out - and the
second-Thursday evening at the nlant
of the Hendersonville Light and Pow
er xompanyv No apperciable damaga
was, done at either place.
n fi 1 1 ii t n n m r ;
Jurors Dravn Tor OGtober
; Term of Superior Court
The county commissioners of Hen
derson county were in session Mon
day Besides the drawing" of the jury
for 5 the.5 October.1. teraTof -Superior
court; : the only ' husihess transactted
was of a routine nature. 'i. A number
ftera such., as come A before th . board
posed -pt, -w-o 'y'' "v .: :i , -: 1
The, following is a. list of the Jurors
as drawn Monday : :
. T,-:r. t First Week.
CS. Wbttaker, A.-L. Davenport, L.
P Moore, F. M. Nichols, J." V. Blythe,
W Q. Patterson, 4L. T. Justus, D.
i Brvard, Nix ,W' W. Marshall,
SLtlt. Jones. M--,M- Shepherd, J. T,
jWoodnnM K.. Qs-
ieen j. ja.vatisu!pe,: w; .-w.-i
C. Newman,: L. H. Hill. J. . . Under-
kwood, -C.v Hatchcpck, W. B." Guice,
auuucj. ,
Second Week.
, P. C. Moore,. J. iB Brown, J. C. Orr,
U P. Carines, T. H. Liberett, W. M.
Maxwell B. B. McCreary, J. U WMt-;
aker. J. M. Drakei M. N. Connor, p, M.
Drake M. K Justice, Ben Capps; E.
j B.-Barnwell, W.-A, Walker, J.E. IXJhg
j M. A. Ward, M, D. Flynn.
'i.--. ";
, HANDSOME,, NEW CITY
JIAXL ABOUT COMPLETED.
Finishinar touches are being put on
Hendersonville's handsome -new. city
! hall this week, .and before many days.
a spacious auuitorium is a cren.i w
our city and something, of which we
all are proud. Not many towns the
size of Hendersonville can boast of .as
fine a municipal building.
PLEASED WITH THE TERRACE.
Mr. and Mrs K. G. Whistler, of
Camden "S. C., who have been spend-
ine- several weeks at the Carolina
Terrace,- returned home Tuesday after
noon. In all of their extensive travel
ing they have expressed themselyes
as having found no ulace fro compare
with Hendersonville, . in climate and
scenery; Thev . .. are loud in their
praises of the 'Carolina Terrace, and
its management, under the direction
of Mr. Howell Cobb.- They have many
friends in this city and this communi
ty, who regret their departure, for
they add so" much .; pleasure to the
social, life of their. friends., ....
' ' BASKET CAMPMEETING, -r-:
s The colored foIksbf this sedtion are
preparing, for ; an -. old-time -basket
campmeetlng to be held at:" Logan's
chapel near Horse Shoe beginning on
Thursday hefore the. second Sunday
in SeptembeT.I Several ' splendid col--ored
preachers will. be. there during
the meeting and" address the people.
Rev. W." C. Logan, is pastor of the
church. - ? -
Charlotte merchants - are planning
for a big Dollar Day September 14.
The local political situation has
taken on hew life during the past few
" weeks. The candidates for various
offices of '1 the two parties have been
. leaking the bushes" of late. , While
the Democratic party' had no avowed
; candidates in the recent primary, nor
(did" but one qualify, as nominee but
there are several independent Demo
' crats. running for office in this coun
ty. J. W. McCarson, who . came very
near being elected sheriff four years
ago, is in the race for sheriff this
year. He is as well known in the
county as any man and his friends
are confident of his election. It. will
take the full Democratic strength and
a few of the other party to win the
race. Fralo Kuykendall.is right after
the tax collector's job" running against
an old timer, W. P. Brown, who is now
, serving his second term and had a
closeand bitter race in securing the
nomination from his party for the
third term.
In the -race for legislature C. P
Rogers was the only nominee of the
Democratic party in the primary out-
sme ui me iaee iui suite stsuaw;,
which - is really more Ithan a county
office, there being three counties in
the district. Mr. Rogers is making a
strenuous- campaign. He has already
visited every voting precinct in the
county and is making a clean cam
paign. He expects to beat the Re
publican nomineje, ,Brown,lVw Jack
son,, by a close figure.
The candidates for ' commissioners
are all Republicans and are taking
life easy until after November 8. .
W. A. . Barnett is the -Independent
candidate for .township constable run
ning against J. Wallace Redden, the
Republican candidate. I : '
Vlien the Dollar Will . .
.interest, in VDouar- Day" which is
to be-tared- Jlcnday cr
yiUe usi3"ss blouses is. 'growingrap-Idl-TV
As - the' appointed.; time draws
nearer prospective customers,.; recall
ihgf ajnany excellent f commercial tid4
bifit 'picked up on such occasions,': are
preparing, to take K full advantage- of
whawill be offered., -
-There Is an especial reason for. this
interest just at present which is not
far.. tO; seek. There ; are probably few
people who have not felt keenlyvwith
in recent years the gradual rise. in the
general level of prices. .Thia .rise
had -its beginninff some pears ago and
'.although there , have .. been . certain
halts in its progress, the movement as
a whole shows no tendency to disap
pear...: On the - contrary, . prices, are
still . rising, and seem likely to rise, for
some-time to bme.. '
The stocks : from . which the local
merchants -are to select., their '-Dollar
Day" bargains, howeverr.were con
tracted for and bought soma time ago
at a jevel as a general rule ;ipuch un
der that, prevailing: at, present. This
f act will, have" a material - bearing up-:
on the values itnat will teeredand
every? shrewd buyer. is, well-aware of
the fact. '.; '
The merchants -wilL go to the very
limit In combining- and constructing
.their -Dollar Day bargains- with the
end in view of creatine popularity for
their " respective stores and - gaining
new - friends rather than oi securing
a net profit on the items sold. This
year the -values will really he greater
than ever owing to the fact jusft men
tioned, namely that prices, are rising
and that the goods offered .were puo
chased when the market was notably
lower. Viewed from-this aspect the
approaching event gives . promise
being khe most interesting thing: of its
kind ever staged in: thip vicinity, r
REVIVAL CLOSES.
Series of Sermons at Ebenexer Church
Closed Wednesday Night
(Speeial to The Hustler.) ".
Hendersonville, R-l. Sept. 6. The
revival meeting at JEbenezer cnurcn
: closed last Wednesday night with two
professions-of faith. - The baptizing
took place Sunday niorning : at ten
o'clock- ' -'V
- Mrs. Cross and family who came here
from Charleston - some time ago to
spend the summer left for their home
last Wednesday. .
The prayer meeting was conducted
by Mr Ross , last Sunday- night ad the
Baptist church. Prayer meeting will
be held at the Methodist church next
. Sunday night conducted by Rev. Mr:.
Cornr : - ". " : .
- TheTfarmers of this section are very
busy this week gathering 4heir fodder,
- ' ' i i
WESLEY BIBLE CLASS TO HOLD
SERVICES SUNDAY NIGHT.'
"The Wesley Adult-Bible class of the
Hendersonville Methodist church will
conduct" Yhe aertices Sunday night at
8 o'clock:- ; Besides 'three tnr'Xour. short
talks by some of the members; of the
class the musical feature: of the ' proi
gram promises io he'quite.a treat as
the orchestra -will reader some . .of
their - best' selections, .'as well as flute;
violin and French hornT solos. The
public is cordially invited ,
'The republican campaign in Hen-"
derson county was formally launched '
a.t ameeting held in the court house -
here Monday, when the' Henderson .
County Central Hughes-Britt club was
organized with a substantial enroll
ment and the audience was treated to
a speech By H. A. Gudeer of Ashft- .
ville. candidate fbr the leeisiature
from Buncombe county.
A good sized crowd, among them
being several ladies, was present, but
still mere was plenty, of room left for
any who might have -thought of at- -
tending.
The meeting was called to order
shortly after eleven o'clock by W. C. r
Rector, acting for the county chair- ,
man, and O. V. F. Blythe was elected
president of the club. W. C, Stradley
was nominated and chosen vice-presi
dent and A.' O. Jones., register of deeds,
secretary and treasurer. About forty
names were enrolled before the speak- -ing
commenced and after the speaking
Others .were given an opportunity to
add their names to tho list.
Mr. Gudger was introduced by
President Blythe and made a typical
republican speech. At the outset 'he . .
stated that some one had - predicted -that
his would be the hottest most -
bitter - and dirtiest campaign in the
history of this state, and the speaker.
said if this were so he would rather
the campaign would come off after he
was dead and gone; that he didn't be
lieve the prediction would come true.
and that he did not propose to resort
to any bitterness , towards the demo
cratic party in the speech he was.
about to Jnake. "
Although he said Mr. Wilson was
an upright, honest and straightfor- J
ward man. he criticised him for his
policy of "watchful - waiting," in re-
spect to Mexico, his statement with
regard to Germany as being "too
proud to fight," and various other mat--ters.
His chief accusation of. Wilson .
lay in what he termed Wilson's change-
ableness of mind. .
ixThe - speaker talked of politics ; na-::
tional, politics - state, politics, district '
and also county, politics. ' . Our- nation- ..
al ' banking law, enacted' bya jpeo
ccratic president and' aDeinocrati
v
--
possible- and provides that no
rifle- cf .bankers, can'tle: .ub'ofeoscy .
marjbf ? thUnltedsoJ
ted fat; th mind of a republican sena
tor from Massachusets, but ; but was!
never passed . oy. a repuDiican con .
gressjhe said. ; . .
He said - the. republican party -. was :
born, in 1861 and was made-necessary
to preserve .the union ; and-Jiamed re- .
publican leaders from Lincoln on
down the ages Garfield Hayes, Mc-
Kinley . to the "greatest living Amen-
can Theodore Roosevelt." Ho as
serted that rButler had - no .more,. pow
er In North Carolina republican, poll-
tics than he nad iu North Carolina
demoeratlc- politics and that BuUerism .
was .nothing: more than an issue with
the democrats. -. . -?-.;
t He closed by saying thajt.there are- .
two things for the. local republicans
to do. FirBt. elect Hughes and aid
in hia mind there .wasjno queston, of
his being elected; second, "urge; .and -implore-and
bc- and' plead' for Ithe
electJbEU of rMr - BritjL Elect.ttiese .
rtwo and "save thia country, from .des- .
olation-and rujn and anarchy."
- "His ' fipeech was highly - enjoyed by -the
republicans and few democrata
present. Mr. gudger, is Tspeakln? at
different, places in ''the county this
week and locaf Hughes-Britt clubs are .
being organized.
; DEATH OF MRS. ALLEN; : .
Mrs. Sarah Allen, widow of tfhe lato
Daniel C. Allen, about three miles -from
town; died Wednesday evening,
from the infirmities of old age.--She
was about - 84 or' 85. For long years
she was a faithful and consistent
member ot Who Methodist churchy She
was a good-woman and a useful one
in her day and generation. She leaves.
three sons and three daughters. They
are George, William and James, alL
live in" Cleveland County. She was
living with her daughter, Mrs. E .C. ;
Ross, at .the time of, her death. The
other daughters are Mrs. Wm. New
man, who lives near Fingerville, Ga.f -and
Mrs. "C. C. Young, "who lives in
Henderson county.- Her remains were -
interred Thursday 'afternoon in the
county church- buryitfg ground.
DEATH OF AN INVALID.
Miss Ida Hall, op lake City, S. C, v
aged about 15 years,- died alt the Pat-,
ton Memorial hoapltal here Friday af
ternoon of last-1 week, and' the body
was taken to' Danville. Va-y Saturday
for intermenlt. The deceased camf
here with her mother several weeks
ago in the' hope of 'being benefitted by -the
climate. She was suffering-from ;
ine effects of an'operation tor' some v
internal disarrangement. .-; ';-.."-.;: - ,
CHARLESTON CASTOR pX&&. ,
Jlfe Willfam Way, rector, of Grace
church; Charleston-, R C Is aupplying
the church'of St. John's in the WUder
ness at Flat Rock during the jaonth
of - September Mr. .Way is a fine
speaker and is rdbing splendid work H
.foe;:ministry.;,-;';;t-:--: . "
Mr and sMrs. J: M. Gudger, Jr., of
Asheville, were in the city Sunday.
