THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 148.
HAUHK, VKHMOXT, THURSDAY, SKPTKMHKH 7. 101R.
PRICK. OXK CENT.
BREAK
GERMAN
DEFENSE
French Have Captured First
Line Trenches on a One
Mile Front in the Verdun
; Sector, According to the
French Oflicial Statement
To-day
230 PRISONERS
WERE CAPTURED
Breach in German Line Was
Effected Between Vaux-
y Lhapitre Region and the
Town of Chenois British
Hold Gains in Leuze Wood
on Somme Front
Paris, Sept. 7. The French have cap
tured German first line trenches over a
front of one mile on the Verdun sector,
the war office announced to-day. The
breach in the German line was effected
on the front northeast of. Verdun, be
tween the Vaux-Chapitre region and the
town of Chenois. The French took 250
prisoners.
The statement adds that a powerful
effort made by the German troops to dis
lodge the French from Hospital farm on
the Somme front was without success
and the Germans were dispersed with
heavy loss.
nil Bulgarian trooptare Mill engaged i
with the lUiiiiHriiMiiH in the the D"brud- !
jit region- Berlin report the rupture of
seven of the Tutrakan work, together
with their armored batteries. The Ku
nianians, on t hi other hand, assert that
they have retaken h 1 1 the Dobrudja Iron
tier east of thH Danube between Bul
garia ami Rumania. The towns of !
lucx and Kalafat. on the Danube, have
been bombarded by the Teutonic allies.
The Russia ih in' Turkixli Armenia con
tinue to make progress against the- Turk
near Ognott, inflicting heavy casualties
on them, according to Pctrograd.
On the Macedonian front only bom-j
bardment are in progress.
In Albania the Italian Bdvanee ha
been "topped, says Berlin, ami the Teu
tonic allies have recaptured all the po
sition tnken from them recently east
of Avion.
EVACUATING
WASHINGTON
President Wilson Will Move
To-morrow to Shadow
Lawn, N. J.
RUMANIANS CAPTURE PASS.
Also Quite a Number of Guns and Food
Stores.
Bucharest, via London, Sept. 7. Ru
manian troops nave occupied ffyergyo-f)itro-Orpva
puss on the north and
northwest frontier of Rumania, says the
oflicial statement of the Russian war de
partment to-dny. Seven gnus, a number
of machine-guns and importitnt food
stores were captured from the Austro-Hungnrians.
THREE INJURED IN
CENTRAL VT. WRECK
HE WILL TAKE HIS-
ENTIRE ENTOURAGE
Will Have White House Of
fices at Asbury
Park
Two Cars and Tender Were Overturned
When Train Was Derailed at Am
herst, Mass., Last Night.
Amherst, Mass.. Sept. 7. Three per
sons were injured when a Central Ver
mont passenger train was derailed at
South Amherst early last, evening. The
injured are G. M. Church, express mes
senger; J. J. Kelly, mail clerk, and C. W.
Harrow, baggagemaster, all of New Lon
don, Conn. The mail and fxpress cars
and tender of the engine were over
turned. The passengers escaped without i
injury.
Washington. D. C, Scjit. 7. All ar
rangemetit were completed to-dav for
the transfer of the executive offices at
the White House from Washington to
Asbury Park, X. .T., to-morrow. For
the first time since Wilson became pres
ident the complete staff of secretaries,
clerks, telegraphers and other attache
will accompany him on the vacation. For
the last three summers he has spent
only short periods at Cornish, X. II., and
then took only his personal stenographer
with him.
a Although the president plans to spend
most of his time at Shadow Lawn, at
Long Beach, he will go to Asbury park
as often as it is necessary to visit the
executive offices and attend to public
business. A suite of rooms has been
engaged in a modern office building there
and the furniture will be transferred
from the White House. The president
plans to leave Washington to-morrow
for Atlantic Citv to address the woman
suffrage convention and then proceed to
Shadow Lawn to remain until September
20 when he goes to St. Louis to apeak
to the undertakers' convention.
ALDEN, JR, WINNER.
Captured the 2:18 Class at the Sheldon
Fair.
Sheldon Function, Sept. 7. Between
4,0011 a nd 5,ihs) people attended the see
ond ilav'a exhibition of the Franklin
County Fair association on the grounds
here, about the usual second day's crowd,
and the management feels well pleased
when it is considered that there is a list
ural falling off because of the barring of
children. It is mid that there is the
largest number of automobiles ever seen
on the grounds.
The Plumber front Grand Isle won the
3:00 minute race in straight heats, with
Princess fMornon of Montreal second.
The time was unusually fast for the
three-minute class. In the 2: IS, Alden,
Jr., from Fssex won after five heats. The
Rapitite from (Jeorgia took first place in
the first two heats ind bioked the win
ner, but was nosed out in the next three
heats. Summary;
3:00 (lass.
The Plumber, F. A. MarMle of
Grand Isle 1 I 1
Princess Ocloroon, K. A. Lcferre of
Montreal 3 22
Proprietor Huat, H. E. Martinette
of Montreal 2 3 4
Xapoleon, J. E. Peacock of Mont
real r 4 4 3
Time-2:19i2, 2:20V., 2:20',;.
2:18 Class.
Alden. Jr., Charles Martella of
Kssei 2 2 1 1 1
Rapifite, P. II. Post of Georgia 112 2 2
lAdv Gin. E. A. Lefevre of
Montreal 4 3 3 3 3
Ronnie W ent, W. J. Mullen of
Franklin 3 4 4 4 4
Time 2:21, 2:20'i. 2:20Vi, 2:22V,
2:25Vi.
IN THE THROES
OF BIG STRIKE
New York City Finds Part
of Transportation Sys
tem Affected
BOTH THE SUBWAY
AND ELEVATED
Thousands of Policemen
Called to Keep
Order
TRACK WAS SLOW
AUTO KILLED DEAF MAN.
FORD BRINGS SUIT
FOR HALF MILLION
London, Sept. 7 A German attempt to
regain possession of Leuze wood on the
Somme front last night led to hand to
hand fighting with the British, the office
announced to-day. The Germans were
beaten back.
"East of Xeuville St. Vaast the enemy
. expioaea a mine, yesterday evening we
, carried out a very effective bombardment
of the enemy's trenches west of Lens."
GALICIAN TOWN OF
HALICZ BURNING
Russian Bombardment Causes the De
struction of the Place Railway
Lines Are Occupied.
Petrograd, via London, Sept. 7. The
Russians are bombarding the Galician
town of Halit'z, about 60 miles southwest
of Lemburg, says the Russian oflicial re-
port to-day, and the town is in flames.
The statement adds that Russian troops
' have occupied railway lines between Hal
, icz and Semikovitze and Wodniki.
1 Turtukai, a fortified Rumanian town
on the Danube about 50 miles southeast
of Bucharest, has been evacuated by the
Rumanians, according to a Russian state
ment. In the. fighting in eastern Galicia yes
terday the Russians took 5,r)00 more
. prisoners.
Walter F. Pierce Was Victim at Green
field, Mass. .
Greenfield, Mass., Sept. 7. Walter F.
Pierce, aged 37 years, of Bernardstown
road, died vesterday as a result of being
struck by an automobile driven bv Col.
George W. Rossman of Keene, X. H. His
skull was fractured.
He was a native of Morriscna, X". Y.,
and had lived in Greenfield for 15 years
and was a well know n market gardener.
The accident took place on upper Fed
eral street about 9 o'clock yesterday
morning. Mr. Pierce was operated upon
atvthe Franklin county hospital, where
he was taken immediately alter the ac
cident.
Mr. Pierce wag very' deaf and the ac
cident appear to have been partially due
to this affliction. He stopped his horse
and got out of his wagon with a basket
of apples. He was crossing the road
when struck, Col. Rossman, who l
the president of the local gas company
said he repeatedly blew his horn and
swung to the left to avoid Mr. Pierce
The injured man was rushed to the
hospital in George V. Corsigh'a truck,
which was passing.
He is survived bv a wife and seven
children, Charles W. Pierce, Greenfield;
Mrs. Elliott Rucsdale, Deerfield; Mrs.
Mabel Riohardson, Greenfield; Arthur W.
Pierce, with Co. L at the border; Dwight
C, Dorothy F. and Helen E. Pierce, all of
Greenfield; two brothers, Arthur W.,
Hackensack, X. J., and Maurice, Mon
tague City; also a sister, Mrs. Xellie L.
Fogg, Dorchester.
Starts Action Against Chicago Tribune,
Which, It is Charged, Called the
Automobile Manufacturer
an Anarchist.
Detroit, Mich., Sept. 7. Tt was an
nounced to-day that Alfred Lucking, per
sonal attorney for Henry Ford, is in
Chicago to file a suit for $500,000 in
Ford's name against the Chicago Trib
une. Ford asks personal damages as
compensation for an editorial article.
which, it is charged, called Ford an an
archist.
FRENCH IN CHAULNES.
Have Occupied Part of the Railroad Town
Qn Southern Somme Front.
London, Sept. 7. While their compa
triots were busy Wednesday north of
the Somme, mainly in warding off Ger
man counter attacks or engaged in ar
tillery duels, the French south of the
river drove their men further into the
German lines and made additional note
worthy gains.
In stubborn fighting over a front of
four miles between Vermandovillers and
CJhilly the Germans have been forced to
give up the northern portion of Verman
dovillers; while the French have occu
pied the outskirts of the railway junc
tion town of Chaulnes and"thrown their
forces along the railway running from
Chaulnes to Roye between Chaulnes and
Chilly.
To the north the operations by the;
French which have Barleux, and ulti
mately Peronne as their objective, also
met with success. Southeast of Belloy-en-Santcrre
further German trenches
wire captured and the greater portion
TO MOVE GERMAN LINERS.
They Will Be Convoyed By American
Warships.
Washington, I). C, Sept. 7. Convoyed
by American warships and flying their
own flag, the German auxiliary cruisers
Pnnz hitel Friednch and Kronpnnz Wil-
helm, now interned at the Xorfolk navy
yard, will be transferred to Philadelphia
sometime between the 20th and 30th of
this month.
The American escort will serve the
double purpose of guarding against at
tempt to escape and protecting the Ger
man boats from attack by allied war
ships, as it will be necessary for the
squadron to pass outside the three-mile
limit. The transfer is to be made be
cause construction of a new dock at Xor
folk has reduced available space there.
There are 324 officers and men on the
Prims Eitel Friedrich and 420 on the
Kronprinz Wilhelm.
GOV. H0LC0MB RENOMINATED.
By Connecticut Republican After Dram
atic Actios.
Xew Haven, Conn., Sept. 7. Governor
Marcus H. Holcomb of Southington, a
retired judge of the superior court, was
renominated for governor at the Republi
can state convention late yesterday, de
feating four other candidates after five
roil calls.
There were no other contests, the re
mainder of the ticket being nominated
by acclamation. George P. McLean was
nominated for I nited States senator.
The renomination of Governor Hoi
comb came with dramatic suddenness
after a day of tedious roll calls of the
581 delegates. The fourth roll call had
stood: Frank E. Healy, Windsor Locks,
194; Holcomb, 185; ex-Lieutcnant-Gov
ernor Dennis A. Blakcsley, XTew Haven,
136; Lieutenant-Governor C. B. Wilson,
Bridgeport, 65; Comptroller Webster had
received scattering votes in previous bal
lots.
On the next roll call the Bridgeport
delegation which had voted solidly for
Wilson, swung to Holcomb amid cheers,
and then Xew Haven, which had support
ed Healy, also voted for Holcomb. Other
delegations in quick succession voted for
the governor, until finally the nomma
tion was made unanimous.
Because of the Rain and Attendance at
Rutland Suffered.
Rutland, Sept. 7. Rain lowered th
attendance at the Rutland fair yesterday
and necessitated racing on a heavy track
The horse show events began and many
fine animals competed for the cups. The
cattle department, too, is unusual! v
strong and the apple show is the best in
years.
In the 2:17 trot Atlas Bell was first
The 2:20 pace for a purse of $1,000 was
won by Lady Gamsge. The 2:12 p.ice
went to Wood ClifTe. The summaries
2:17 Trot Purse $700.
Atlas Bell, bh (Mann) 12 3 11
Woodlawn Girl, bm (Jones) ..2112
Magneto, bg (Martin) 3 4 2 3
Prodigal Bingen, bh (Pottle). .5 3 6 4
Rose Baron, bm (Winter Hill
stablest 4 5 4 ro
Famous Xutwood, bh (Moore) 6 6 5 to
Time 2:20'i, 2:20'i, 2:194, 2:19.
2:20.
2:20 Pace Purse. $1,000.
Ladv Carnage, bm ("Pottle) ....3 111
Dot tie Hal. bm (Walch) 14 3 2
Don McKinney, blkg (Weeks) .. 2 2 2 3
Echo Wilkes." brh (West) 4 3 4 4
Tim-2:154, 2:14Vi, 2:16'4, 2:17.
2:212 Pace Purae $500.
Wood Cliffe King, bh f.Muggridge) 1 11
Reed Xorton, the (Martin) 6 2 2
Chester Maid, bm (Bosher) 2 3 3
Mary Chrontrelle, blkm (Pattee). 3 8 6
Master Mariner, gg (Pottle) ..... 4 4 4
Minnie Directly, bm (Woodrow).. 5 6 5
Time 2: 14, 2: 15, 2:14.
HARDING HORSES WON.
28 AMERICANS ABOARD.
OLDEST MAN IN TOWN.
Elijah Graves Died at Vergennes at Age
of 95 Years.
Vergennes, Sept. 7. Elijah Graves, a
well known citizen and the oldest man
in the town of Ferrisburg, died Tuesday
night at his home from general break
down, aged 95 years. He was born and
had always lived in Ferrisburg and was
a farmer by occupation. He was a mem- vessel Stella Delmare, which was sunk
v.. -e . i t ... i i ; . l-: .. i i i r ! , i : . cr n 1 ; : . 1 ,J
Ship Kelvina Which Was Either Mined
or Torpedoed.
Washington, D. C, Sept. 7. Sinking
of two vessels in the t:uropean war zone
with Americans aboard, was reported to
the state department by American con
sular officers. The state department will
investigate both incidents to determine if
American rights have been violated.
There is no information now at hand to
indicate that either vessel was attacked
illegally.
A dispatch from Consul McCunn, at
Glasgow, announced that there were 28
Americans on board the British steamer
Kelvina, when she was sunk by a mine
or torpedo September 2, while bound
from Xewport Xews to Avonmouth and
Glasgow. All the Americans, muleteers,
were rescued and now are in Glasgow.
Consul Hurst at Barcelona, Spain, report
ed that two "presumable Americans,
James Andrews and Leon Bruce, were
among the crew of the Italian sailing
Captured the 3:21 and the 2:30 at St.
Johnsbury Fair.
St. Johnsbury, Sept. 7. The Caledonia
county fair racing yesterday was well up
to standard. The 2:30 pace went five
heats. The summary:
2:22 Class. Trotting.
Purse, $300.
Gov. Bond, b. s. (Harding)
Almont, r. g. (Lyons) ....
Bavian, b. s. (Harding) ...
Queen (Biekford) - 4 4 4
Time 2 :32V,, 2:31, 2:29.
2:30 Class, Pacing.
rurse, $300.
Marvia, b. g. (Harding)
C. Z. B., b. g. (Barnard I
Octaroon Prince Jr., blk. g.
(Pierce)
Direct Patch, blk. g. (Berry).
1
1 1 1
2 2 2
3 3 3
2 4 11
12 2 2
Time
2:26'a.
3 3 13 4
4 3 3 4 3
-2:23ts, 2:30, 2:33Vi, 2:27a,
STAMP TAXES ELIMINATED
Ferrisburg. He ia survived bv three
I daughters, Mrs. Harvey Xewton of Tan-
of the village of Berny-en-Santerro fell i ton and the Misses Clara and Lillian of
ber of the Methodist Episcopal church of by a submarine off the Ballearic islands
OH .-Mlfjllfll. W. 1 lie lui-sn;- nm uuv
state whether the crew was saved.
info the bands of the, French. During
the days fighting, aceormng to fans
the number of prisoners taken apparent
ly was large.
Berlin admits the loss of the town
of Clerv, which lies a short distance
northwest of Peronne
In Galicia on the front of the Zlota
Lipa and Dniester rivers the Russians
have driven out the Teutonic allies from
fortified positions and taken pris
oners, among them about 3.000 Germans.
Berlin concedes a victory to the Russians
in this region. Violent fighting is still
going on around Brezny, nut beast of
Lemberg, hut here Berlin says the Run
ians have suffered heavy losses and
made no advan-e. Similarly Russian
attacks near ZWow. northern tialici.
and in Volhynia, failed, acrording V
Berlin. Fighting ia still going on in the
Carpathians, where tae KussisnS claim
the captur of additional neignts.
Ferrisburg. The funeral will be held
Friday aftrenoon at 1 o'clock at the
house.
SWAMPY FEED FATAL.
Berkshire Bovines Had Died in a Myste
rious Manner.
COL. CHISH0LM ELECTED
Commander-in-Chief of Spanish-American
War Veterans.
Chicago. Sept. 7. Col. Daniel V. Chis
holm of Washington. D. C, was unani
mously elected commander-in-chief of
the t'nited Spanish war veterans at the
Annual ri-lininn tir VAsturnilT. Xhe ne"t C II. Phal.n
c ii c-i - . 1 v -." . -:: . : ' "--m
-v. niii, r-.pt i.-it. .1. i.. rarKeririM1I,jn he held in Cleveland, O.
From the Emergency Revenue Bill in
Congress.
Washington, D. C, Sept. 7. Elimina
tion of all stamp taxes in the emergency
revenue bill, seriously objected to by the
House, was agreed upon late last night
by the conference committees, House con
ferees yielding in exchange for this con
cession their demands for restoration of
a tax on refiners of copper.
To make up for the loss of about $5,-
000,000 revenue in eicriftcing the t-tamp
taxes, the conferees are expected to agree
to a suggestion of House members- that
the net profit tax of manufacturers of
munitions of war be increased from 10 to
12'a per cent.
Sacrifice of the proposed stamp taxes
gets the revenue bill bark in accord with
the original determination of the admin
istration leaders and the House ways and
means committee to repeal all of those
provisions in the existing war revenue
jaw which were generally regarded as
annoyances by the p'iblic. The proposed
stamp taxes, which are now eliminated,
included bonds, debentures and certifi
cates of stock, agreement to sale, convey
ances, warehouse and customhouse re
ceipts, foreign steamship tickets
Pullman car tickets.
X'ew York, Sept. 7. Xew York to-day
apparently j but little affected by the
strike which began late last night on the
subway and elevated lines and several of
tha surface lines of the Interborough
Rapid Transit system. The trains in the
subway and on the elevated moved al
most normally and crowds going to their
work during the rush hours of the morn
ing suffered little in consequence. The
surface line traffic on the Green car sys
tem, operated by the Xew York Railways
company, was not so good, only about 30
per cent of the usual number of cars
running.
I'nion leaders who demand the abroga
tion by the company of tho so-called
mai-ter and servant contracts, binding
the employes not to ask a wage increase
for two vesrs. claim that 9,000 men
walked out, including 4,000 on the sub
way and elevated systems. Traction of
flc.ials, however, asserted that not more
than 2,000 had quit and that their places
had been filled by strikebreakers.
Throughout the district affected little
disorder was reported. In Harlem and
on the east'Bide there were minor dis
turbances and in other sections a number
of elevated trains were assailed with
bricks from rooftops, but no one was se
riously injured.
Theodore P. Shonts, president of the
Interborough Rapid Transit company, de
clared that with adequate police protec
tion the company would be able to cope
sueessfullv with the situation and "guar
antee transportation to the public." He
said that only a small number of the
company's employes had become unionized.
As soon as tb strike vote was an
nounced, scouts were sent from the un
ion meeting place to notify crews on sub
way and elevated railway lines.
Mr. Shonts issued a statement half an
hour after the strike was declared, say
ing that "all agreements would be de
clared off" and that his company "would
fight the union to a finish."
rive thousand patrolmen who had been
held in station houses in anticipation of
he strike were at once pressed into serv
ice. The preliminary details called for
policing each subway and elevated train
with three uniformed patrolmen and
like number on stations.
The entire police force, from midnight
it was announced, would work on th
three-platoon system. Two platoons will
do strike duty and one platoon rcgula
police patrol.
Should the strikers succeed in their
threats, more than 12,000 employes will
be affected and New York will face the
worst tie-up of ita transportation line
in its history. Thus far the union has
confined its demands to the Interborough
Rapid Transit company and its subsid
mrv surface car line, the Xew iork Kail
ways company. But it was intimated
that the strike might possibly be extend
ed to other companies, operating in the
various boroughs of the greater city.
Realization of the inconvenience result
ing from inadequate service on under
ground, elevated and street car lines has
caused commercial houses and corpora
tions employing hundreds of employes to
make preparations for getting them to
and from their places of business.
With traffic in the subway at a stand
still, the hundreds of thiusands who use
it daily will add to street traffic conges
tion. Xext to the subway, the elevated
railway lines have been the most popular
method of travel.
Owners of water craft planned to make
regular trips along the North and East
river fronts, picking up passengers at the
principal cross-town sections of the city.
Employes of the "Green car" line of
the Xew York Railway company shortly
after 11 o'clock last night also voted to
go on strike at once.
This is one of the most important of
the Hiirface car lines in the city. The
men acted through sympathy for the sub
way and elevated railway employes.
whose demand for an annulment of indi
vidual contracts binding them not to seek
wage increases for two years was denied
by the Interborough Rapid Transit jom-
' Aam not Intend to comply with th
Admon eight-hour law recently enacted
by Congress to avert a threatened rail
road strike, until ordered to do so by tho
I luted State, supreme court.
Mr, liiplry's statement follows;
"Congress, hastily acting under a
threat of our leaders of labor organisa
tion, enacted a so-called eight-hour law
which is nothing more nor le than an
advance of 2u to -." per cent in the wages
of the liest paid men in railway sen ice.
It i only fair to the public and to our
employes to say that the Atchison, To-
peka Si Santa Fe Railway company does
not intend to comply with the law until
ordered to do so bv the court of last re
sort."
BELLEWEN.
Barre People Were United in MarrUf,
at Burlington.
At the chapel of St, Paul's church in
Burlington Wednesday afternoon at
o'clock. Mis Jennie I. Kwen, daughter of
Mrs. .lames hwen of 1 Orange street, was
married to At hoi R. Bell, sm of Dr. and
Mrs. A. R. Bell of Enosburg Falls, by Rev,
W. J. M. Beattie, rector of the Church of
the Good Shepherd of Harre, assisted by
Kt. Hey. lieiirge 1, Bliss, bishop co
adjutor of Vermont. The groom is tin
ployud on the staff of The Times, and
the bride has lately been engaged as
clerk in the office of the Xational Life
Insurance Co. in Montpelier. They will
reside at l amp street. Xo cards.
ORDER 15,00(f
OUT OF SERVICE
Those Who Were Recently
Sent Home from the
Mexican Border
ALL OTHERS TO STAY
FOR THE PRESENT
FAIRFIELD HENGER.
Rutland Newspaper Man Takes Bride at
Watertown, Conn.
Rutland, Sept. 7. Whitcomb B. Fair
field, business manager of the Rutland
Xews and son of the publisher, Charles
1. r airfield, was married last evening
at Watertown, Conn., the bride being
Miss Mareelbt A. JL-nger, daughter of
Charles W, Henger of Watertown. 1 he
father of the young woman is an ofli
cial of the American Brass company.
The ceremony took place at 8 o'clock at
the Methodist church. Miss Christine
I. Bigelow of this city, who, like the
bride and groom, is a graduate of Oberlin
college, was one of the six bridesmaids.
Among the Rutland people at the cer
emony were Mr. and Mrs. C. T. Fair
field and daughter. Miss Jeannette Fair
field, and Mr. and Mrs. Paul W. Coolidge.
Mr. and Mrs. Whitcomb Fairfield will
be at home in this citv, at 1 Kingsley
avenue, about October 1, after camping
on Lake Champlain.
ONE MORE VERMONT CASE.
War D s irtment Gave Or-de.'o-day
to Keep
hem in Arms
W S ngton, D. C, Sept. 7. The ftf-
tee ou-and Xational Ouanlsmen uhn
were" .ctiirned from the border by a re
cent order of the war department, to
day were mustered out of the federal
service. The Guardsmen still oil the bor
der will stay for the present.
The troops affiwted are three regiment
from Xew York, two from Xew Jersey,
0110 from Maryland, two from Illinois,
two from Missouri, one from California,
one from Oregon, one from Washington
and one from Louisiana.
READY FOR TESTS.
pany.
Poultney Youth Returned from Auto
Tour and Was Taken Down.
Poultney, Sept. 7. Lucian, fouj. years
old, youngest son of Rev. and Mrs. M. G.
Cole, is ill of infantile paralysis. Mr.
and Mrs. Cole and two children had been
on an automobile trip for a week to Hoo-
sick Falls, X. 1., and while away the
child showed symptoms of being ill. A
physician who was called at Hoosick
Falk pronounced the illness to be only a
slight stomach trouble.
The family returned last Friday and
the boy continued ill, but no doctor was
summoned in until Tuesday, after which
a consultation of physicians was called
and the disease pronounced infantile pa
ralysis. It is said to be a mild cae, al
though one leg is paralyzed below the
knee.
Rev. Mr. Cole is pastor of the Meth
odist Episcopal church in this town.
FOUR MEN ARRESTED.
On Statutory Charge and Girl is in Sher
iffs Custody.
Brattleboro, Sept. 7. Four men were
arrested yesterday afternoon charged
with statutory offenses, against a 15-
year-old girl of West Dumnierston. John
Brooks, Harold Hennessev, and George
Johnson waived examination and each
was held under $700 by Associate Judge
E. J. Waterman of the municipal court
for his appearance at the September term
of county court. L. . Waterman, driv
er of a public, automobile pleaded not
guilty to the charge and was bound
over under $700 bonds for a hearing.
The girl did not return to her home
Monday night after having gone for a
ride with three young men, two of
whom were Johnson and. Brooks. She
was found yesterday morning in the
coniany of Hennessey. Xo charge has
been brought against her vet. but she is
in the custody of Sheriff C. E. Mann.
Vermonters at Eagle Pass Expect Hard
Time of It.
Eagle Pass, Tex., Sept. 7. The 1st
Vermont is getting ready for the inspec
tion to be given them by Colonel Mor
gan of the inspector-general's depart
ment of the I'nited States army.
From what the northerners hav
earned froni the men of the Maryland
regiments who have been put through
the test, they have a job 'that will keep
them on their toes all the time and
make them show every bit of military
knowledge they possess. They are not
worrying. They feel that since thev
arrived here the first part of July thev
have learned many things and that they
look and act like soldiers.
An officer of an Illinois regiment and
an auto truck driver crossed the in
ternational bridge into Mexico yesterday
morning. They were arrested right oft.
Both were uniformed and the officer car
ried side arms. The two pleaded igno
rance of the law forbidding American
soldiers to go into Mexico. They were
visitors here. The Mexican soldier
turned the two over to the commandant
at Piedras Xegras, Colonel Peraldi, who ,
returned them to the American consul
at Eagle Pass.
MILITIA, DISGUSTED.
AUTO PLUNGED INTO DITCH
After Colliding with Another Car No
One Injured.
St. Albans, Sept. 7. An automobile in
which Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Kellev and son,
Donald, and Miss Mary Delligan of
Swanton were coming from Sheldon,
overturned yesterday afternoon when it
collided with a car owned and driven by
John Rashaw of this city and containing
party of young men going to the Shel-
At Uncertainty Surrounding Stay at
Fort Ethan Allen.
Burlington, Sept. 7. Officers of the lsfc
Vermont infantry and army officers afc
Fort Ethan Allen are disgusted with the
uncertainty that has prevailed at Wash
ington during the last few months.
An army officer of high rank, who
should know, says that half the officers
at the fort are waiting for the promo
tions to take effect that were scheduled
on July 1. They are among 2.000 offi
cers in the regular army, he said, whose
promotion had been delayed. To hold
up a promotion more than two week?
was unprecedented before this, he de
clared. As for- the militia, he asserted
that a recommendation had been made, iti
the proper quarters that the remaining
companies and unsigned recruits in the
state be either sent to the border 01
discharged from active service. Asked
by whom and to w hom the recommenda
tion was made, he refused to say.
The lack of decision at Washington ia
felt quite as keenly among the militia,
both officers and men. The event of a
week ago when the state guard didn't
go to Eagle Pas merely heaped injury
upon insult in the minds of the men
One officer called it a huge "joke," but
there was anything but a smile on hil
face when he said it.
"Is there any chance of the mobiliza
tion camps being demolished?" was asked
of Inspector General J. L. Chamberlain
of the department of the east, who spent
Tuesday and Wednesday inspecting th
militia.
"You'll have to ask Mr. Wilson," wa
the reply.
This is the inspector general's first
call upon the militia of the state. He
doesn't express opinions, as he said, but
the criterion of excellence which he
The first interruption in service oe
curred shortly before midnight on the
surface car lines of the Xew ork Rail
ways company, when motormen and con
ductors began turning in their cars at
the barns.
Mr. Shonts. when informed of the
strike on the surface car lines, declared
that it was in direct, violation of the
agreement signed Aug. 7, which ended
the former strike involving the Xew York
hallways company, the Third Avenue
gn,jRailwsv company, and other surface ear
lines in various parts of the greater
tie JRunmniaa t&eatxa t&m German ' ma!"
has received from the state laborstorv
of hygiene a report that the caie of
the recent deaths among Berkshire cat-1
tie was due to feeding the cattle in
swamps and marshy lands in the pasture.
Dr. Parker is of the opinion that four
heifers and a bull which were found
dead a few days ago on F. M. Wright's
farm in East Enosburg died of the same
cause. He has sent a specimen of the
serum from the rattle to the sta'e laW-
atory aa be did from the Berkshire ani-
Other officers elected are:
Junior vice commander-in-chief Oscar
Kilstrom, Wisconsin division.
Surgeon general L. A. Warwick, In
diana division.
(Tiaplain-in-rhief Rer. .Tames Gleaaon.
Cabfornia division. -
Col. Chi'holm was opposed by Lieut.
Gov. Barret ti'llsra of Illinois and S. H.
Saunders, senior rice eomroander-incbi"f
of Xew Hampshire.
When the result of the vote wa an
nounced Col. Chisholm's election was I
niSiia uLsrumcua.
Amendments empowering the president city.
to retaliate against interference of William B. Fitzgerald, general organiz
American mails and commerce, it was er of the union, addressing employes of
said, would be retained, with probable 1 ' ne Intel txirougti and Xew 1 ork Bail-
ar-endment re-1 ways companies last night after the
garding interferen-e with the mails ! strike had been declared, advised them
whi-h had not been submitted to the!" "keep out of trouble." He told them
state department before its adoption by fn out and do their picketing as peace
on fair. The machine went into a brook
beside the road and the party escaped held up to the militiamen will probably
practically uninjured. When Rasluyv j stick in their minds for some years tc.
met Kelley's car the latter was turning j come. He said he and his subordinate
out for another car and Rashaw i-ould 'inspectors were inspecting each of the IS
not stop in time to avoid the collision.
FRIGHTENED TO DEATH.
of
Valuable Horse Terrified Bv Noise
Threshing Machine.
Middlebury. Sept. 7. A horse valued
at $300 dropped dead vesterday from the
effects of fright, it is thought. W. K.
Foster was working with hih team at
the home of his son-in-law, ur.iwing
grain to the side of tli- threshing ma
mobilization
partnient.
camps in the eastern de-
VILLA MAY JOIN.
If
He Can Get Near Enough to the
Carranzistas.
San Antonio, Tex., Sept. 7. If Fran
cisco Villa gets within striking distance
of the American expeditionary force, Gen.
Tershing's soldiers may join troops of
hine, and it is thought that the horse's! the de facto government in an offensive
death wa due to fright cau-d iiv the 1 camps ign to exterminate the bandit ant
noise of the power of the fast 1 uViiing his followers. This as the statement of
the Senate.
The proposed license tax on corporate
stock, increases in the duty on dyestuffs,
increases in the income and inheritance
taxes and the provisions cresting a tariff
commission, all were approved.
A continuing appropriation of $.Wi.oo
a yesr tV.r the tanff eommi"ion. how
ever, wa ssid to hve been stricken rm1
The conference also was r-port-d r have
made charges in the proposed taxes on
wines.
PUT UNDER BAIL
On Charge of Allowing Vog s to Rua at j
Large. ,
Gen. Funston vesterdav afternoon.
There has been no agreemnt between
Meican and American military men for
a concerted movement against Villa. Gen.
Francisco tii.n-alcf. Carranza commander
in Chihuahua, already has sent a force
against the Kmdit. ho was last report-
Sfow-e. Sept. 7. Justice C. M. Watts'ed in Santa Clara r;non. and. if the or
eonductel a hearing in Morrivi!!c Tues- ! caion arise-, the American commandet
day in the cae of Charle f.odfrey and j might take part in the pursuit.
Wilkie lfiitchinson, w ho were bound over j "That i up t n. Perhipg. said
to count v court in (in bonds, charged Gen. Funt'-n.
with allowing dogs to run' at large and' Army men pointed cut trist Gen. Per
for shooting dcrr out of -non. Failin? -hirir entered Mexico to capture VilU
Tereka, Kn, Sept. 7. E. P. Ripley, 'to secure bond tV men were mmmittcd 'and that hi object hud not ben a.vom-
president of the Atchison, Topeka A t to jail. Game Warden X. B. ( tiapin was i li'hci. A -le message went late
fullv as possible and not to make it
"harder for the dic force than it is."
TO RESIST EIGHT-HOUR LAW.
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Announced
Last Night.
of
Santa Fe railway, declared in a f..rml I lo csl'ed to M'rrivil'e si a witness ia ! veterd r altertioon frc-m t-n. Funton
stat-mert last n-pht that the Santa Fe ft case. 1 Ceo. Ieirkir.
1
