She ffueumeari INews
) Largest Circulation of Any i
4 Paper in Quay County
Advertisers Know Where to
0 Place Their Ada 4
0
AND TUCUMCARI TIMES
VOL. XIV.
TUCUMCARI, QUAY COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 7, 1916
NO. CO
First Annual Cowboys' General Round-up, October 3d, 4th and 5th $2500.00 in Cash Prizes
PRESIDENT WILSON
SIGNS ADAMSON BILL
WHILE ON TRAIN
Washington, Sept. II. Tin' Atlimison
eight- hour day hill, exacted from eon-
gres.s last week by the railroad liroth-1
urhoods as the price of calling otr tin 1
nationwitli' strike, ordered for Monday t
was signed liy President Wilson Sun-1
tiny in tilu lifilMilii ftir til I 111 t Ttlilktl 1
station, where he stopped on his way
from Shadow l.awn, N. .1., to llodgcn
ville, Ky. That theie may lie no qties
tion as to the legality of the measure
as a result of it having lieen signed
on Sunday, the president will affix ids
signature again upon his return to
Washington next Tuesday.
How long peace shall reign as a re
sult of the hill is dependent upon de
velopments in the proposed test of the
constitutionality of the act, Should
the railways take no action, hut await
the lieginning of an investigation on
the workings of the eight-hour day
Ity the special commission for which
the measure provides, the hrothoi
hoods will remain inactive.
The employes' leaders declare, how
ever, that should the law he held un
constitutional and the railways at
tempt to restore the ten-hour day on
their lines, a strike will follow prompt
ly. None of the hrotherhood leaders
witnessed the signing of the Will.
MR. RIPLEY'S REGRET
E. I'. Ripley, president of the Santa
Fe railroad system, is quoted as say
ing that he is sorry that the threat
ened strike has been called off. giving
as his reason that he would have liked
to see the issues lietween the employ
eV and the railroad brought to a crit
ical test.
Just such men as Ripley are the
cause of union lalior. His kind arc
those who look upon lahoringmeu as
slaves and if they dare they would
treat them as such. This remark is
unworthy of the executive head of a
great railroad company and cannot
fail to cause a feeling of resentment
against the man who made it and the
interests which he represents. If the
strike had lieen called there would
have been men desperate enough to
put him out of existence. Fear of
starvation for one's family make men
and women desperate. Little do we
know here in the West of the hazards
of railroad trainmen in the East.
See the minister locomotive a very
giant of power. It is drawing an enor
mously long train of big frieght cars
loaded with merchandise. The wholu
affair is a marvel of ellleiency in trans
portation; also, it represents the fun
damental cause of the trouble between'
the railroads and their workers.
No freight train compares with the
American freight train in size and
economy of transport. Hence it is
that railroad train rates in the United
States are the cheapest in the world.
It is mainly a matter of long trains,
big freight cars, and etra-powerful
locomotives.
Running of such locomotives and
trains means ery hard work for the
employes. To operate one of the huge
engines demands moie skill and nerve
strain than the management of a light
weight locomotive that can lie jerked
about in an olf-hand way over the
tracks.
The locomotive has an appetite in
proportion to its size, and the fireman
who has to feed it, must shovel a vast
deal of coal into it. Labor for the
brakemnn increases with the length
of the train and the size of the wheel
ed vehicle composing it; hence the
efforts they have made to persuade
statu legislatures to limit the number
of cars. The weight of responsibility
falling on the conductor, who di recta
the movements of all this costly ap
paratus, has grown correspondingly.
In other words, one of the rosultH
of the extraordinary development of
freight-carrying machinery has been
that the railroads are enabled to get
more work out of their men. Thu
workers claim that, while all this won
derful mechanical progress has lieen
going on during recent years, they
have been overlooked.
The trainmen are- skilled craftmen.
Much responsibility rests upon them,
and they are constantly facing serious
danger. Forty-three per cent of all
firemen are killed sooner or luter in
accidents, not collisions necessarily,
hut mishu. .4 of one kind or another.
Think of it; nearly every second fire
man loses Ills life incidentally to the-
performance of his duty. 27 per cent
of all engineers are killed.
The eauso of the brotherhoods was
once tried before an arbitration board
and they failed to get what they be
lieved to be justice, so were disinclined
to try again. The railroads say that
they have fixed their terminals (chief
ly with reference to population and to
important cities) at an average of
Kin miles apart. It takes ten hours
for a freight train to cover this dis
tance, and hence the requirements of
"ten hours' work, or 100 miles."
Rut the brotherhoods reply that, if
the trains were somewhat reduced in
length, they could easily make 12 Vj
miles an hour, and the distance of 100
miles could be covered in eight hours.
In this way the working day of the
crews could be cut down to the normal
and proper length of eight hours. Of
course, shorter trains mean more loco
motives, and, for this and other rea
sons, the cost of transportation to the
railroads would lie appreciably aug
mented. While the locomotive has been grow
ing to gigantic size, the freight car
has gained correspondingly in dimen
sions. It has become huge. Today it
is one-fourth lugger than it was only
a dozen years ago, and at the present
time it has an average capacity of -10
tons. The growth of the freight car
ami the lengthening of the train have
greatly added to the labor and hazards
of the crews.
The average pay of a locomotive
engineer is $f.2.'l a day. That of a fire
man is $.'.2i. A conductor gets $1.50.
These seem very fair wages. Hut it
should be remembered that such men
are trained experts. To become a
conductor or an engineer requires a
ong and arduous technical education.
High character, unexceptional habits,
industry, and special aptitude are in
dispensable requisites.
It s a long road to the top. The fire
man is very apt to lose his life be
fore he gets there. Hut ho has a bet
ter prospect of promotion than the
brakemnn, because there are four or
five lirakemen to every fireman. The
average engineer is able to work only
11 or 12 years; when that time has
elapsed he has either lieen killed, dis
abled by accident, or worn out by
nerve strain.
The railroads have said that to meet
the demands of the brotherhoods It
would cost them 100,000 a year. Pos
sibly the money might lie well invested
The best evidence of the value of the
service given by the employes is af
forded by the fact that during the last
year only 20T passengers were killed
mid 1 i',121 injured on the railways of
this country. During the same 12
months d0,8l2 of the workers were in
jured, and 2i23 lost their lives.
Each year one in every ten train
men in the United States (the term,
as here used, including engineers, fire
men, conductors and brakemcn) is in
jured and one in l.'tr is killed. On the
other hand, only one passenger is kill
ed for every 2,000,000 carried, and one
hurt for every 100,01)0. The average
passenger travels over 11,000,000 miles
before he is injured, and he journeys
HO.OOO.OOO miles before losing his life.
State legislatures are called upon
to protect men against such rulers ns
Ripley. If transportation companies
have lieen unduly and unjustly regu
lated - if rates have lieen reduced be
low what is reasonable and restric
tions imposed that are bunb-inonie
and discriminatory, the men like Mr.
Ripley have themselves to blame. Dis
regard of the rights and interests of
the public has been at the foundation
of more than nine-tenths of the anti-
railroad legislation.
If the strike had been pulled off it
is thought this country would have
Buffered more hardships than at any
time in its history. Many lives would
have paid the penalty. President Wil
son observed his motto, "Safety First"
and thus prevented much agony and
blood-shed. Let peace reign supreme.
While others fight and kill their fel
low men, America abounds with peace,
tranquility and brotherly love.
Those who will havo rooms to rent
during the Cowboys' Roundup October
II, !, and o, are requested to list the
same with T. A. Muirhead, chairman
of thu entertainment committee,
Every spare room in Tucumeari will
be needed to accommodate thu guests
and citizens are urged to make sacri
fices if necessary, in order to help take
care of the visitors to thu city.
T. A. Muirhead, Chairman.
NOHLE LECTURE
Dr. Frederick W. Noble of Tucum
eari, will open the Hudson lecture
cjursu at thu local school house in
Hudson, on Friday afternoon, Sept.
lf, at threo-thlrty'-fivo o'clock. His
theme will he "Rural Sanitation."
While Hudson never fails to furnish
her own crowd, a cordial invitation is
extended to the outside public.
STATE CAMPAIGN OPENS
In the New Mexico .-tate campaign,
which is about to gel '-tinted under
full steam, (iuthrie Smith writing for
the EI Paso Herald, says "It is no
proper or comfortable place for a can
didate who lives in a glass house or
who has eutertuined a skeleton in his
closet during this or the .preceding gen
eration."
Senator Albert II. Fall, of Three
Rivers, keynoling in the Republican
convention which named the state tick
et, served notice that the Republicans
did not have the remotest intention
of conducting a "gentlemanly" cam
paign this fall. He said that the
throwing of rocks or mud would not
be initiated by the Republicans, but
that if one of their candidates should
lie assailed, retaliation would lie not
only swift and sure, but just us ter
rific as might be justified by the facts
in the records. He explained that lie
expected to be busy witli national cam
paign matters, in the east, during the
greater part of the autumn, but he
made it plain that in the four or five
speeches which lie might make in the
state, lie would say whet was in his
mind, and go just as far into personal
and official records as he deemed it
advisable or expedient.
(5ov. William C. McDonald. keynoling
last Wednesday afternoon, in the con
vention, deliberately accepted the chal
lenge. With reference to the foi in
coming campaign, and th" methods
which may possibly prevail, the gov
ernor had this to say:
"In a recent speech in the illy of
Santa Fe, we heard something of a
gentlemanly campaign, and the lirst
speech of that campaign, so far as I
know, was a remarkable illustration
of the idea of the gentleman wh'i made
it as t. what a gentlemanly campaign
ought l be. I wisli to ay now that
in a general way 1 am not in favor of
villifi'-alion and abuso. bui 1 am li
favor of holding a man responsihlo to
the i"!"oi d that he may h:iv made.
"At the head of the Repulilica.i li.'i;
et you have a man who ha made a
record in the state of New Mexico and
that iLcord is now available for the
scrutiny of the people whose su("ragc
he is policiting. We do irt have to go
to tha Democratic records, but we will
go to the record of the removal f a
Republican from a coun'y office ny a
Republican governor, and upon that
record he will be judged, and upon
that record he must stand, even unto
the present day."
RAGE TRACK IN SHAPE FOR
AUTO SPEEDWAY-CAR OWN
ERS INVITED TO TRY IT 00T
Jim Lovelady, chairman of the Fair
(rounds Committee, in charge of the
work on the race track for the Cow
boys' Round-up, announces that the
track is now in good enough shape
for an auto speedway, and invites ev
ery car owner in the city to go down
and run his car around tfcu track for
a while each evening, which will help
pack the ground. It is hoped that car
owners will note this invitation and
will respond to the call to help get
the track in shape and at the same
time enjoy a nice half-mile ride.
A big banner advertising the round
up is being painted to stretch across
the main street between the American
National Hank building and the Israel
building.
Local parties who have visited up
and down the line between El Paso
and Amarillo recently, state that much
interest in the Round-up affair is noted
all along the line and visitors have
been plied with many questions re
garding the program and the prizes.
The news of the contemplated show
also has gotten out all over the Pan
handle and cowmen from that section
have announced that they will be vis
itors.
The program is about completed and
will be ready for the printer within a
few days and next week if possible
it will be published in full. '
No one dreamed of the success that
is sure to come since so many live
wires have taken hold of thu Round-up
and aru doing all thuy can to make
it a success. Plenty of money for
prizes. This is the feature that at
tracts the best riders and horses,
FORI) LOSES WHEEL
While Mr, and Mrs. Herman De
Oliviora were coming to town today
the left hind wheel came off their Ford
and ran into the fence. The car was
going about Hi miles an hour. Tho
car tipped sideways but did not turn
over and nothing serious happened.
Nobody Injured. A neighbor happened
to como along and part of tho car wad
brought in for repairs,
Herman is an old-time hronc buster
and it will tako more than a mere
flivver to put him out of business. Ho
would ride 'or if she only had two
wheels, hut the law of gravitation
would not permit such an episode,
Cowboys' General Round-up in Tu-
cumcan, Octobor 11, -I, and B.
FARMERS INVITED TO
T
FARM NEXT WEEK
Through the courtesy of Manager
Herbert Smith, the News editor was
taken to the Experiment farm in his
auto, Wednesday and there witnessed
tho progress of that station. Mr.
Smith is proud of the showing he has
made with new crops us well as some
of the old. He is anxious that every
farmer in Quay county call at the
farm buforo he harvests the crops, so
that he might show them the results
of his experiments. There is no use
for any farmer to experiment. It is
costly and so long as the government
pays for the experimenting we should
take advantage of thu opportunity af
forded us and visit the farm ofli'm in
see what can and what can not be I
grown here successfully. Of course
wheat cannot be grown upon sandy
land so well as land like that on the
plains, but feed crops can be grown
successfully anil this country beimr a
cattle country will profit by planting
the kinds or grain best adapted to the
soil. If any farmer desires to visit
the farm Mr. Smith will gladly show
him what he has accomplished and
which grains he thinks can be grown
with good results.
In the first place the rainfall so far
this year has lieen l.'M below normal.
During August -I .-13 inches of rain fell
which is about the average for that
month, but there was little precipita
tion of any consequence since May and
crops were somewhat backward. 172
trees were set out this year and never
watered. Only 2.'1 of these have died.
Mr. Smith prepares the ground in the
fall by discing a shallow ditch about
six feet wide, which catches and holds
all moisture of the fall and winter. The
trees are set out in the spring im
mediately after a good rain and Mr.
Smith says this is much cheaper and
better than dynamiting or any other
process, rive acres are being pre
pared this fall in which to set all
kinds of shade trees as nn experiment
so that he can recommend the best
wiriety for this country. He is now
successfully growing locust, poplar,
elm, willow and cottonwood, but rather
thinks honey locust is the best adapted
although the other named varieties are
doing nicely.
ror the benefit of visitors who do
not care to walk over the farm a tract
of land has been planted with a sam
ple row of each variety of grain be
ing tested on the farm. There are
.eventy-three rows in this plot, prop
erly labeled so that visitors need no
guide to explain.
Alfalfa cut in June will be ready to
ut again next week. It shows a most
healthy growth and Mr. Smith believes
it can be successfully grown.
Twelve varieties of cow peas are
being grown in different parts of the
tarm and all show they are the stud
for New Mexico. They will make
lKiin to 2000 pounds of feed stuff per
acre and this is said to be as good as
alfalfa.
.Millet made a good yield.
llioom corn is normal and is a crop
well adapted to New Mexico soil.
The sorghums are surprisingly line
some of the plats being above normal
tho stalks being better than six feet
in height. Mr. Smith recommends Red
Amber although about twelve other
.arieties are making an excellent show
nig. Most of the crops were culti
vated three times and can he counted
upon to make good,
Dwarf yellow maize is making 7o
per cent yield this year.
12 nuw varieties of Indian corn were
tried out this year, only one making
any showing. Luguna corn is doing
well and is in a class with Mexican
June which has already proven its
value in this country.
The best piece of dwarf maize is
on a piece of ground that was fallow
ed. This will produce about normal
and tho heads are of good quality.
Cotton is doing tine and promises
to produce as much this year as has
ever been produced in this county. It
will soon be ready to pick.
Six acres of ground has been laid
out in acre tracts, fenced hog tight.
These tracts will bo planted to differ
ent feeds and hogs of the same age
and breed will bo put in these plats
and kept a certain length of time in
order to test the food values of the
different crops. This experiment is
to take place this winter.
Farmers throughout t.hn coimtv nur.
tiaps know considerable about what
will and what will not grow success
fully in this county hut unless you
take a day off and visit the experiment
farm you are missing tho best oppor
tunity of your lives. Mr. Smith Is
not trying to raise better maize than
you. Ho is trine to find tho best va
rioties for you to grow. Tho govern
ment Is paying for this information
and you aro to receive tho benefit if
you will go out and ask a few qucs-
VISIT EXPERIMEN
tions and set- for yourself. The road
from Tucumeari to the farm is the
best drive out of town. The road is
kept in good condition by the drag
tystem ued in progressive farming
localities. Drive out and see what
New Mexico soil will do if progressive
soil culture is followed. A few seed
in well prepared ground with cultiva
tion scientifically administered will be
rewarded with a bountiful harvest.
$17.20 PER ACRE IN WHEAT
Charley Vance of McAlister, was
over Thursday on business and he
reports wheat threshing in his com
munity finished and most of the land
ready for fall planting. He threshed
a little more than 13 bushels per acre
from 11)0 acres and none of it has test
ed less than (52 pounds per bushel.
House Pioneer News.
According to the above statement
Mr. Vance's land yielded wheat to the
value of S17.20 per acre. 102 acres
brought him a cash outlay at the pres
ent price being paid in Tucumeari, of
$:i,ir8.00. He was in no hurry to sell
his wheat and will perhaps receive
still more than that. When 11)2 acres
of $10 land will produce 2170 acres of
extra fine wheat during a dry year
like the one just passed, what could
we expect the same land to do during
a good year. The Vance boys are well
pleased with New Mexico land. They
own some back in Missouri where it
is valued at SI B0 or more per acre.
The income per acre on the Missouri
land hardly pays expenses whilo down
here they more than pay for their land
each year. These men are workers,
they do not come to town and whittle
goods boxes and cuss the country.
Such men are what we need and tho
more the merrier. Facts are facts and
what these men hnve done other men
can do.
ENTENTE DIPLOMATS ARE A
LITTLE EXCITED TODAY
Washington, Sept. f. Amendments
to the revenue hill striking at the Al
lied blacklist and Hritish interference
with American mails were adopted by
the senate and created conntenmtion
nmong the diplomatic representatives
of the Allies.
In Allied quarters it was declared
that the I'liactment of the amendments
into luw ivould constitute nothing less
than a non-intcrcouw act. prelimi
nary to a commercial warfare with
the possibilities of far-reaching conse
quences. until the retaliatory amendments
become law with the president's sig
nature, the Allies technically have
nothing to protest about, but there are
assurances that representations will
lie made if the Amendments stay in
the bill.
Inasmuch as the government had de
cided on a course of legislation to
meet the restraints on tho commerce
which diplomatic correspondence has
been unalile to remove it is generally
expected the amendments will be put
through. The administration leaders
who have intimate connections with
the government's foreign policy made
no attempt to stay their adoption.
A RIRTHDAY SOCIAL
The birthday social given by the
Royal Neighbors Lodge Friday night,
Sept. 1, was quite a success.
The lodge realized quite a nice lit
tle sum and wishes to thank tho Mod
ern Woodmen anil visiting neighbors
for their most liberal offering.
The lodge also wishes to thank those
taking part in the program each num
ber was greatly appreciated and we
wish to thank the neighbors and vis
iting neighbors for their beautiful
floral offerings. Then- were sixty-two
present.
GOODMAN MERC. CO.
II. Goodman of the Ooodmnn Merc.
Co. of Roy, who has disposed of his
mercantile business there, was here
this week with a view to locating in
Tucumeari. He finally succeeded in
buying the Stark Grocery store and
will tako possession after the 20th
of the month.
Mr. Goodman is one of the best
mercantile men in this part of the
state. He is a live wiru and will be
a valuable addition to Tucumeari. In
due time he will mid other lines to his
stock and his presence will be appre
ciated.
MRS. OWENS WILL RECOVER
C. L. Owen was here today from
San Jon. He called to see his wife
who is in the hospital here. Mr. Owen
said tho wife was recovering and ho
thinks she will get entirely well ns
soon as she is well enough to have the
bullet removed by the X-Ray process.
This is good news to those who only
a few days ago held no hopes for her
recovery owing to tho seriousness of
thu wounds, but nothing has been left
undone by physician and nurses and
it is now thought all danger is passed.
HOY BROKE HIS ARM
The six-year-old son of Louis Mares
who lives near town, foil from a wa
gon Monday morning near Goldcnborg
& Go's store, and sustained a broken
arm. A physician wns called nnd the
member set as soon ns possible,
OG ISLAND CO 00
TOR MITCHELL SHOT
A telephone message from Amarillo
Tuesdav was responsible for the re
port that "Red" Mitchell, a Rock Is
land conductor on the T. & M., with
a terminal hetc. was shot and killed
by his brakemnn. after a quarrel.
Mr. Mitchell has a number of warm
friends here and they were pained to
hear this report, but they will be glad
to hear that he is not dead and nn
long as there is life there is h6po.
The following article from the Am
arillo News will be of interest:
Although operated upon yesterday
evening in Saint Antony's Sanitarium
in the hope of repairing the damage,
done, Conductor E. C. Mitchell of the
Rock Island, who was shot while on
his run yesterday forenoon a short
distance out of Amarillo, lingers in n
precarious condition with indication
very much against him. Hrnkeman O.
I). Rider of the same train crew, is
charged with the shooting, and re
mains in the county jail pending de
velopments. Upon being attacked Mr. Mitchell
jumped from the moving train and
his head and face were bruised by
reason of this leap and fall to the.
ground.
Wben the train arrived in Ama
rillo (after being bncked up from tho
place of shooting) Rider gave himself
into the custody of the officials nnd
was landed in jail. So far as has been
ascertained, no statement has been
made by either the wounded man nor
the prisoner ns to the causes leading
to the shooting. A bullet took effect
in the stomach of Mitchell and it was
through the hope of removing this
trouble that the surgical treatment
was given. Amarillo News.
SHOW WAS HERE SATURDAY
Mondny was a day of disappoint
ments. There were many who drove
several miles to see the Cole Hros.
show. They were disappointed be
cause the show skipped SnnUi Rosa
and arrived in Tucumeari about 11:00
a. m. Shortly after their arrival a
nice rain fell which delayed unloading
the henvy wagons and paraphernalia.
Tho parade was pulled off about 4
and the first show started immediately
after the arrival of the parade at the
grounds. The performance did not
come up to expectations of the crowd.
There was a good attendance at tho
afternoon performance considering
the threatening weather and tho show
arriving two dnys ahead of time, hut
the crowd at night was like the per
formance rather slim.
This show bears a good rcputution
and much was expected of them. The
elephant act was the best ever wit
nessed in Tucumeari. The Japanese
barrel performance wns a winner with
the audience. Other performances
were noteworthy but it seemed that
the program was cut short in order
to get out of town as soon as possible.
The management had been promised
by the Santa le officials that if his
train would reach Amarillo nefore
Monday they would guarantee moving
them along their lines. Therefore
they felt line taking no chances with
being tied up in Turumcnri.
SUCCESSFI L PUHLIC SALE
The public sale at the Mackinzio
home south of Kirk, was a success last
Tuesday and the stock and implements
brought much more than expected. C.
h. Hunter was the auctioneer, and ho
reports that he was ably assisted by
F. H. Taylor of this city, who is aspir
ing to become an auctioneer. Mr.
Taylor tried his hand and proved him
self to have the qualifications neces
sary to make a successful auctioneer.
There was a good crowd present and
after paying olT the mortgage on ho
stock and other stuff the orphan chil
dren will have a few dollars left.
The sheriffs department is offering
a $J0.00 reward for the capture of
the man who married the mother and
spent her money nnd mortgaged her
property. If ho is captured and re
turned to Quay county all rules of hu
manity should be sot aside and let
other measures take care of him.
SANTA FE MAY DUILD FROM
LIBERAL TO DES MOINES, N. M.
Raton, N. M Sept. . One of the
most important announcements to
reach this city in the matter of rail
way extension, came last week, when
information relative to the proposed
extension of tho linu from Liberal,
Kansas, to Des Moines, N. M wns
given by one who is in n position to
know whereof ho speaks. Tho state
ment was to tho effect that material
for tho extension had been ordered by
tho Santa Fo and that work would be
gin some-time in the very near fu
ture. Don't miss tho Cowboys' Round-up,
BY BRAKEMAN RIDER
