BASE BALL Sept. 8, 9, 10, 11, Four Games Wichita Red Sox vs. Clayton, on local diamond
0
L I IIIIU It Mill-1 ! Ull II iH I HMt WIU I ' 1 .11(1 IKtUIUHmiMll I ttl II (ta II W IIIIHIItl IIHIt
CLAYTON CITI
VOLUME 12
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1916
NO. 35
... fi.E
SO THE FARMERS MAY KNOW
ELLA J. McCLELLAN
Look here, Mr. Farmer, what the
Hon. Dick T. Morgan, representative
from Oklahoma in the House of Rep
resentatives of your congress has to
say concerning the features of the j
now notorious "Farm Loan" scheme
devised by one, Mr. Moss of Indiana,
to relieve the farmer first of his vote
and second of his land a little later
on. Mr. Morgan ought to be authori
ty for he is representing in congress
the worst landlord ridden state in the
union today.
This scheme is plainly a political
one in the first place and has been ad
vertised to beat the band a3 one of the
"great achievements" Of the present
"administration" to catch the vote of
the farmer, iust as the threatened
We chronicle this week the death of
Mrs. Ella J. McClellan, one of the
noblest characters we have ever
known and a woman whose memory
will live always in the hearts of her
friends.
She had been a resident of Clay
ton for many years but for several
past she had lived in other places.
She held the position of Matron at
Cottey College in Nevada, Mo., until
her failing health compelled her to
leave there. She went to Tucson, Ar
izona, where her son, George, lives
and was benefitted for awhile. She
died there August 31st, with her three
children, George, Herbert and Ruth,
at her bedside. Short services were
conducted at the Parker Undertaking
strike of the railroad brotherhoods j parlor at Tuscon, by Rev. Henry Van
has been used to "pull" the vote of
these brotherhoods to the "adminis
tration" by the passage of legisla
tion that is plainly "class" in its na
Valkenburg and she was brought to
Clayton Sunday afternoon by her
children, Herbert and Ruth to be laid
to rest by the side of her husband,
ture and operation. In the second wno "eu irum i-nriuysiB i.umun i
place, it is the most insidious scheme . years ago. She also has a daughter
ever conceived in the brain of man to intered in the cemetery here, whose
inveigle the farmer in a mesh of mir-1 death was caused by the after-affects
w will relieve him of the foun-! of diptheria. She was taken to the
in nf W "life. lihPi-tv and Dursuit I residence of Chas. Law, and funeral ;
THE NOMINEES
of happiness," and sink him below the
level of serfdom.
Here are the twelve propositions
that Congressman Morgan supported
by powerful arguments in a speech in
congress, May 6, 1916. Read them
and study them and then consider
whether you will vote for an "admin
istration" that advertises such a
scheme as one of its ''great achieve
ments." "First. Private banking corpora
tions organized for gain, conducted
for profit, managed in the interest of
shareholders, whose chief concern
must be in the receipt of dividends,
should not- be made Government in
strumentalities to act as middlemen
between farmers and investors and,
by national authority, clothed with
power to levy unjust tribute on both
borrowers and lenders."
"Second. The joint-stock banks
will neither enlarge land-credit facili
ties for the farmers of the United
States nor augment the amount of
credit at their command.
"Third. The creation of joint-stock
banks to do business in conjunction
with the 12 Federal land banks will
increase the average rate of interest
paid on farm mortgages by the farm
ers of the United States.
"Fourth. The joint-stock banks will
largely increase the total amount paid
by the farmers of the United States
as administration expenses of the land
credit institutions.
"Fifth. The creation of joint-stock
banks will largely increase the amount
of money expended by the United
States in the supervision of our land
credit institutions.
"Sixth. The creation of joint-stock
banks will make our land-credit in
stitutions less secure and increase the
danger of loss to investors.
"Seventh. With joint-stock banks
operating in conjunction with the 12
Federal land banks there cannot be
standardization in business methods.
services were conducted by Rev.
Gaines. Mesdames Grimm and Thomp
son and Messrs. McFadden and Steele,
sang her favorite songs. Messrs. Mc
Fadden, McCullough, Herbert Ham
mond, John Hill, George Bushnell and
Dale Charlton, bore her casket to the
hearse. A large number of flowers
covered the casket, the last loving
tribute of her admiring friends. Mr.
and Mrs. Joseph Gill, also assisted in
the services.
Ella Justine Gardner was born May
22nd, 18G3, in Iowa. On October 16th
1882, she married FnV Mc
Clellan in 'Denver,
I lived for about ten years. They came
to Folsom in 1892, remained there aj
short while and moved to Clayton,
where Mr. McClellan was stricken '
with operator's paraylsis, causing his
death. His brave wife fought with all
her strength for his recovery but to !'
no purpose. She is survived by ;
George Bayard, Herbert Norman, and
Ruth, having lost two daughters, Da-
phne Vivian and a small baby daugh-;
ter. i
Mrs. McClellan has been spoken of
by her friends as the "highest type of
Christian Character" and this exprés- j
ses her life more nearly than any- j
thing else one could say. She was
noble to the highest degree, the most
perfectly well-bred lady it has ever
been our lot to know, a wonderful (
mother and a loyal friend. She strove
to give her children the very best ed
ucation she could get for them, real
izing what it would mean to them la
ter. It scorns too bad that after she
had so effectually accomplished her
dearest wish, that she could not have
baen spared to enjoy life with them
in comfort and peace, but the Great
Father knows best and our loss is her
gair. The children have the sym
pathy of the Citizen as well as that
of all who know them, in this loss of
their best friend.
For President
CHARLES E. HUGHES
For Vice-President
CHARLES FAIRBANKS
For District Attorney
ORIE L. PHILLIPS
For U. S. Senator
FRANK A. HUBBELL
For Governor
' HOLM O. BURSUM
For Congressman
B. C. HERNANDEZ
For Justice Supreme Court
CLARENCE J. ROBERTS
For Lietenant Governor
W. E. LINDSEY'
For Secretary of State
GILBERTO MIEABAL
For State Auditor
W. G. SARGENT
For State Treasurer
GREGORY PAGE
For Superintendent of Schools-
J. H. WAGNER
For Attorney General
FRANK W. CLANCY
For Land Commissioner
R. P. ERVIEN
For Corporation Commissioner-
MALAQUIAS MARTINEZ
For Presidential Electors
C. L. HILL, Las Cruces.
H. J. HAMMOND, Clayton.
JUAN ORTIZ, Santa Fe.
So The People May Know
ANNOUNCEMENTS
T. J. CRUMLEY
TVJ, Crumley .announces his
candidacy for the republican
nomination for sheriff of Un
ion county, 'and earnestly soli
cits your support in the repub
lican convention.
: JOHN L. HILL
We are authorized to an
nounce John L. Hill as a candi
date for the nomination of the
Republican. party County Convention.
We have shown heretofore, Mr. Taxpayer, that the English pub
lication of the Union County contingent of the "administration" got '
$3,334.63 for "publishing commissioners minutes" while the Spanish
publications got only $1690.21 for the same service. We will state
for your edification that some of the items that go to make up these
totals are marked "Pub. Com. Min. etc." while two or three are mark
ed "Printing." Now let us assume, liberally, that all of such items
are embellished by "etc." and that the real cost of "Pub. Com. Min."
without the "etceteras," or embellishments, for four and one half
years, at the legal rate, would amount to $1260 for each publication
then it is plain that the English publication got $2074.63 of "etcetera."
or embellishment, while the Spanish publication got only $430.21
worth, or $1644.42 less than the English publication. There is also
another cute, little embellishment, or "etcetera," of $127.00 marked
"Printing for Co. Supt." in one quarter which the English publica
tion got and which is not included in the above items. It might be
well for the "Co. Supt." to explain why his office is so extravagant of
"etcetera" embellishments. In the matter of publishing delinquent tax
lists we have shown that the English publication got $1941.21 while
the Spanish publications got $1521.28 for the same work. Thus of the
$8487.33 included in the above the English publication got $5275.84
while the Spanish publications got only $3211.49 showing that the
English publication got $2064.33 of "etceteras" that the Spanish pub
lication did not get. We are not responsible for the record and have
liberally construed it. The same record shows that $200 was paid
"for correcting tax roll of 1912" which correction arose on account
of an illegal levy made by the board of county commissioners. In
competence is always costly.
McDonald de baca, now, de
baca Mcdonald
where irridescent dreams of "Rule or
Ruin" may paint with mipunity their
own private walls in glowing colors
of what "might have been" but never
; will bé. McDonald de Baca de Baca
McDonald dancing masqueraders
1 among unmasked quests! To eTcct do
fBaca governor is to elect McDonald
! governor and to elect McDonald lieu
: tenant governor .is to elect de Baca
lieutenant governor. The attempted
! mask would be cute were it not so
! transparently grotesque. One report
j says, "It is now certain that the cam
I paign in his" (de Baca's) "behalf will
' be made principally by Governor Mc
Donald." That is, Governor McDon
'ald will hold up a "stuffed prophet"
j between himself and the darts of Bur-
sum whom he 'will not dare to meet
j on the platform. No, Mr. "nominat
ing committee" the people of New
Mexico have had enough of McDon
aldism.
CHARLIE CHAPLIN JR.
Performs at Mission and for Catholic
Fair
IMPORTANT ATTENTION
in appraisement, or nloiv.1: other lines
of activity. I Anyone holding tickets No. 5017,
"Eighth. With joint-stock hanks' 1 22 or ,r,478 I.inrüy call on or writs
end 12 Federal land banks all sanios! to Simon Herzstein in reference to the
form mortgage bonds, we will fail to 1 r.'edicin..' i.abinet given away as a
attain one of the objects of land
credit legislation, namely, the crea
tion of a standard form of investment.
"Ninth. The creation of joint-stock
banks will compel farmers to compete
against farmers in securing
credit,
cir.ium for the month of August.
;tbove by a congressman- who lives in,
!h represents, the ' worst landlord
ridden state in this union? Mr. Mor-
t.hcir gan knows whereof he speaks and h
is a democrat too. Are you going to
"Tenth. The creation of joint-stock , vote for an "administration" that hails
banks will make uniformity in inter-' its vay-laying of you and your inter
est rates an impossibility. j ests as one of its "great achieve-
"Eleventh. The creation of joint- ments?" He tells you that these in
stock banks will make it impossible stitutions are "clothed with power to
to. provide equal credit facilities for ! levy unjust tribute on both borrowers
the farmers of the United States. 'and lenders;" that it will "increase
"Twelfth. In type, in purnose, and ! the average rate of interest paid on
in business methods the joint-stock farm mortgages by the farmers of
Ailee Same "Rule of Ruin" Policy
The die is cast. The prediction has
been fulfilled. McDonald must have
been afraid of his record and jam
med Ezekiel C. de Baca between him
ani certain defeat. It was said that
r.o goad could be sufficiently sharpen
ed to "punch" him to the front nom
ination by the "nominating commit
tee." The prediction h;is been ful
filled. What a posey combination, to
be sure! -It was McDonald de Baca;
now it is de Baca McDonald! What
a change in names! .And without au
thority of the legislature, too! Two
poau in a pod! Absolutely inseparable
as long as the peascod holds together!
But- the peascod will be shattered in
November and McDqnald will go back
to his cow ranch and, de Baca will go
back to his newspaper office. No long
er will the twelve-thousand-dollar-a-year
Governor's Mansion walls reflect
:;nd reverberate irridescent dreams of
' Rule or Ruin." As' for Ezekiel, he
, iphecy at Al
t Chebar, in
d the nomina
it committee"
ivas called to
prophesied" to
the United States;" that "the de
nand for their creation comes not
from the farmers, BUT FROM MEN
banks are modeled after existing na
tional and state anks. The demand
for their creation comes not from the
ith ranital WITH CAPITAL WHO WISH TO
who wish to enlarge and perpetuate! ENLARGE AND PERPETUATE
their control over the credit power of , THEIR CONTROL OVEK THE
the people." CREDIT 1'UWEK Ul IUb l-EU-
Now Mr. Farmer, enn you doubt , rLE." aind lie. has ivi.u iuu
the truth of the propositions set fcrth THE TRUTH.
"raphes!) Y í'ia Lj.
buiiuerqu,. Ly the
"'1 1, vh-.v. he ap i
won of th.! "non.i'
before the. convei'.
:vcthcr and after..
the convention what the ' "nominating
committee" had already nominated. It
was then he refused the opportunity
of his life. It knocked at his door but
for the sake of the "nominating com
mittee" he refused to open the door
and let it in. It was then he discard
el the voice of the people for' the
: voice of the scribes and Pharisees and
! prophesied a "false prophecy" which
, did not come to pass by over 4,000
; majority. In November, Ezekiel C. de
i Baca, the "false prophet" of 1914, to
gether with William C, McDonald, the
author and father of "Mcdonaldism,"
will be retired to "high private" life
HOME ECONOMICS CLUB
The Home Economics Club held
pleasant and profitable meeting with
Mrs. Jennings, Saturday afternoon.
Dr. Bristol, who is City Health Of
ficer, was present and discussed the
what and why of Diptheria "in an in
teresting manner.
The Club appreciates Dr. Bristol's
Wndness very much and would be glad
if the other physicians of the city
would co-operate with the club for a
cleaner and healthier Clayton.
At the conclusion of the-program
fruit salad, iced tea and cake were
served by the committee.
Those present were: Mesdames
Ril'au, Campbell, Chamberlain, Gill,
('nines, Kerlin, Haydon, Henry Hann,
Heringa, Olbeter, Osburn, Paddock,
Frank Kilburn, A. D. Evans, Selvy,
Skelton, Staley, Henderson and Jen
nings, nnd Dr. Bristol.
- The next meeting is at the home of
Mrs. Heringa. Mesdames Lav and
Skeltun entertainment committee.
Quite the "cutest" i-trforW-ice that
we have ever seen cn flic s've hap
pened Wt Thursday evening at the
Mission Theatre, vh.ji ;tt!e Miss
Brown, aged five yearn, a daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Bro n, of Trini
dad, Colo., appeared as C harlie Chan-
hn Jr. Her "make-up" was perfect
as was the swaggering, jaunty air she
assumed and the cumiin;,' little cana
she carried. Her sin;íin:; v. as e:;-v!l-ent
and her hih, clear little voice
penetrated the large opera house in
manner that was truly surprising.
Hci dancing well we just can't do
t justice but the applause she receiv
ed shows how the people liked il. She
was called before the curtain a sec
ond time and she came, walking out
and tipping her hat in true Chaplin
style, bhe was a scream from the
start and we predict a future for her
in filmdom.. Her parents expect to
take her to California in the spring
and begin her career. She also gives
a performance at the Talmer Hall to
night for the benefit of the Catholic
fair which begins its round of gaiety
this evening.
FIJEUTH'S THARMACY MAKES
IMPROVEMENTS
Freuth's Pharmacy, f o r m e r,l y
Rose's Pharmncy, has installed a fine
new Victrola for the pleasure of their
customers and a nice inlaid linol
eum. This is only the beginning of a
number of fine thii.s the doctor is J
CLAYTON CITIZEN IS INCOttPOR-
ATP.Il TOMAV
The Clayton Citizen Printing &
, Publishing eompi'.ny fed l-icorpora-jtion
papers in the ofl'.co c.f the state
corporation commission this after
noon. Its capital stock is $3,000 all of
which has been subscribed by the fol
lowing incorporators: II. J. Ham
mond, Sr., C. Otto, R. Q. ralmer, P.
W. Snyder, II. H. Errctt, Hugh P.
Woodward, E. E. Hanim, II. J. Ham
mond, Jr., and Charles C. Hammond.
All of these incorporators are rer,'
dir.ts of Cluytor. Several of them
were delectes to the Republican
state convention held here mvr.t'y
and II. J. Hammond. S', is one of the
republicans nominated for vside"
l!al elector. Hence it appears that
the company is preparing to take an
active pnrt in the cimvr:i'rii this fall.
Snnt'i Fe New Mexicn.
Ml'SIC
..We take pleasure In announcing to
nlannine for his drug store. He has i the people rf Clayton and surround-
bought lots and is planning to build; ins community that we are prepared
a home very soon and expects to make to tench pianoforte, vn'cr, or? vi
Clayton his permanent home. The olin, mandolin and guitar. -All who
doctor says he is in love with the city ' are interested may call at the F. P.
already and wouldn't want a better lo- Kilburn residence or phone No. 97.
cation from a business standpoint. I Mrs. J. E. Chamberlain and daughter.
I 35t.fc.
Sec those nobby felt hats at the j
Barnhart Jewelry Store.
Azar will pay 2Cc per doz. for effKS.
i
