I rj
o
C4
VOL. XXVIII
'HOOD RIVER, OREGON, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7. 191 G
lo. 15
School Supplies
At
The 5-10 -15c Store
Special! A Pencil and Tablet for 5c
Visit Our Ladies Rest Room
The Cruikshank Co.
F REE !
For school children 1000 Weatherly Lead
Pencils, Saturday only, at the
Soda Fountain.
Rresse Drug' Co.
MmSmMm7km ftoxaJUL Store
usali f MMMHHHa
Victor
VIctrelM
Raaorda
Com In tnd Hoar tKo Now Soplombor Kocor4a.
This store never wab-
bles on the question of greater-value-giving. Our
merchandise is purchased on a quality basis from
such quality clothes makers as
THE HOUSE OF
KUPPENHEIMER
We believe in the thorough goodness of these
suits. We have judged them by careful comparison
and actual tests and we know that at
$1 8, $20, $22, $25
we are giving men more for their money in these
clothes, than is possible in any other make at the
same price.
We know also that these suits could stand a
higher price. We know that on inspection you
would pay three to five dollars more than we ask,
and you would get your money's worth. But this
store never wabbles in its decision to give greater
value.
J. G. VOGT
WE FURNISH
Fishing and Hunting Licenses
We are showing a full line
of the famous hand made
Shakespeare Fishing Goods.
Don't cost, you any more
than the other kind.
A large assortment of new
and second hand rifles offer
ed at wholesale cost.
The Franklin air cooled
car eliminates nearly 200
parts as useless, except to
create repair bills.
Easiest riding car made.
Most economical in gasoline,
32.8 miles to gallon.
1050 on 1 gallon oil.
12,000 miles on set tires.
Sporting Goods
Lawn Tennis, Baseball, Cro
quet, Golf the proper goods
for any game.
Tennis and Baseball Shoes.
Wading Boots.
Lubricating Oils
We carry 30 kinds of oil.
The correct oil for any pur
poseask for the right oil
for it is often one-half the
price of a kind not suited
to the need.
Our Furniture Department was never so full of bargains
5 allowed for cash on lowest market pricgSv ' s
Stewart Hardware & Furniture Co.
See Hood River
and adjacent points of scenic interest and see them right
by traveling in one of the large comfortable cars of the
FASHION LIVERY CO. Whether your journey is for
pleasure or for business, let us transport you to your
destination. Don't forget to tell your friends that
The Fashion Livery Co.
is perhaps the best equipped concern of its kind in Ore
gon outside the city of Portland. Tell your out of
town friends. No party too large and none too small.
TELEPHONE 1201
DO IT NOW
Now is the time to buy that Fall suit while our
stock is complete.
Absolutely the largest stock of fine woolens to
select a suit of all wool cloth.
Over fifteen hundred samples to select from.
Also bear in mind we make these suits in Hood
River, tailored in the latest fashions. Pinchbacks
as well as English, and the ever popular Boxbacks,
made for you and to fit you.
Dale & Meyer
108 Third Street
Tailors to Men Tailors to Women
The Dalles Watermelons
First carload of the season arrived Tuesday
Guaranteed Ripe
2 cents a pound
The Star Grocery Perigo & Son
"GOOD THINGS TO EAT"
Our store will close all day Monday, September the 4th, Labor Day
Rubber Stamp Ink at Glacier Office!
CanWe Further Serve You?
Have you a checking account and do you pay your
bills by check ao that your cancelled vouchers are all the
receipt you need?
Have you a savings account and' do you systematically
add to it so that you are experiencing the satisfaction of an
account that grows under the favoring influence of four
per cent interest compounded semi-annually?
When you travel, do you use travelers checks, thus
affording yourself the peace of mind that comes from
knowing that you are protected against loss and that you
can cash your checks without further identification any
place you may go?
Are your valuable papers safely stored in a fire-proof
vault, so you do not have to worry about them when you
are away from home?
Have you made a will directing some responsible fidu
ciary agent just what to do with your affairs for the bene
fit of those depending upon you? -
In these and in many other ways we are prepared to
serve you ami we invite you to avail yourself of all of the
facilities of a modern country bank.
BUTLER BANKING COMPANY
INDICATIONS ARE
FORFINE CROP
SPRAY INVESTMENT RETURN MADE
Hood River Valley Apples Are Clean
Prospects For Good Returns
Bring Optimism
According to estimates of growers
tbe Hood Kiver Valley will begin the
harvest tbis month of an apple crop
tbat will probably pack out a tonnage
of 900,000 boxes of commercial fruit, a
large percentage of which will run to
extra fancy and fancy grades. Esti
mates of tbe present time can be made
fairly definite, and all indication! point
to one of the largest yields of the Mid
Columbia fruit district. A feature of
tbe year's crop tbat is most appealing
to sales agencies comes from tbe re
port that the fruit is clea'n and free
from tbe defects caused by fungus.
Interest in the application of spray
materials has never been keener in the
Hood River valley than during the past
eight months. Investments in power
sprayers and in materials has run into
a sum thousands of dollars greater
than on any former year, but tbe care
ful, conscientious work of growers,
co-operating with representatives of
the local brancb of tbe Oregon Experi
ment Station and officials of the
Apple Growers Association and Fruit
Growers Exchange will result in one
of the cleanest crops ever harvested in
the Mood River Valley.
Kings and Gravensteins have been
pretty well cleaned up. and the grow
ers will next attack the crop of Jona
thans. Then will come the harvest of
the principal commercial varieties
grown here, Ortleys, Newtowns,
Winter Bananas and Spilcenburgs.
Valley Orchards were never in better
condition. Trees that had formerly
shown lack of color in foliage and a
poor yield of fruit, have been brought
back to the normal, healthy state by
building up the soil with cover crops.
The frequent rains of the summer
months have kept tbe foliage and fruit
as well free from dust and the apples,
now beginning to take on their charac
teristic coloring of red or yellow blush,
are of good size.
Tbe pack of Hood River apples will
be standardized to a greater degree
tbe coming fall than in any former
year because of the use of mechanical
sizing machines. Practically all grow
ere with large acreages have installed
power grading machines, and more
than a hall dozen community packing
houses will be in operation in tbe next
30 days.
Growers and market men alike are
optimistic over the outlook for prices
the coming year. While government
reports indicste that the crop of 1916
will be of about the same tonnage as
tbat of last year, the distribution will
be such as to bring better prices.
Northwestern box apple dealers will
not have to contend tins fall, it is said,
with the heavy yield of barnyard orch
ards of the central states as last year.
The consumption of the Northwestern
crops will probably - begin several
months sooner throughout me middle
west than last season. A healthy de
mand at fair prices is expected from
this district because of the prosperity
of the agricultural districts.
Conditions in all lines oi agriculture
in the Hood River valley have been
good the past year. While growets
lost a neavy tonnage oi nay auring me
unusual rainy periods of June and July,
the loss was greatly mitigated by the
benefits of the precipitation to growing
grain and forage crops. It is estimated
that on approximately 8,000 bushels of
grain will be harvested within the next
two weeks by the valley's only thresh
ing machine. The local potato crop is
estimated at between 25 and 35 car
loads. Because of weather conditions
the tubers are said to be of a better
quality than in any former year. The
season has been beneficial to dairying,
and now with almost every rancher
owner of a number of cows, monthly
cream checks of the cooperative cream
ery nave reacnea a graiuying size.
HOOD-FRISCO PHONE
MESSAGE POSSIBLE
The efficiency of the forest service
telephone line to the summit of Mount
Hood was demonstrated last week when
W. D. Scott, division equipment engin
eer of the Pacific Telegraph & Tele
phone Co., visited the Mount Hood
lookout station and conversed with S.
H. Hess, transmission engineer, at San
Francisco. Calif., a distance of 900
miles horizontally and nearly two miles
vertically.
The results of the test were so satis
factory that plana are making for a
test telephone conversation between
the lookout on Mount Hood and the
Forester. Washington. D. C. Officials
of both the forest service and tne tele
phone company ssy tbat such a conver
sation can be successfully carried on.
If tbis test is made, it will be by the
company and the forest service work
ing in cooperation.
G. 0. P. RESPONSIBLE
PREPAREDNESS LAW
war, for the creation of tbe grade of
aviator which will enable civilians to
be commissioned in the aviation sec
tion, and numerous other provisions.
"So far aa tbe increased strength of
the army is concerned a Democratic
bouse refused to authorize anything in
excess or 140,000 enlisted men, mini
mum strength of the regular army.
TbeRepublicana constantly insisted on
a larger regular army and finally sue
ceeded in raising the strength to a
minimum of 178.000 men.
"The Republicans claim no special
praise xor caving voted for these splen
did features. They only did their duty
to their country and they resent the
attempt or Democratic officials to claim
credit for tbe legislation as a Demo
cratic partisan measure.
STUDENTS COLLEGE
DAY EARNINGS HEAVY
Edward F. Underwood, of Boyd.Ore.,
earned a total of $1819.47 during a six
year college course at O. A. C. a aum
within $100 of the entire cost of tbe
course, including traveling and incl
dental expenses. The average coat was
$320 a year, or $1280 for a regular four
year course.
Mr. Underwood entered College in
1910, to take the last two yeara of the
high sbool course in the secondary de
partment then carried at U. A.
During the first year be boarded and
his entire expense was $310. The next
year he batched and reduced bis ex
penses to $275. He then entered the
degree course in agriculture, which he
completed last June with a bachelor
degree.
He earned bis expenses by working a
the college and in the fields during the
summer. He worked on school days an
average of three and a half hours a
day, and on Saturdays eight hours, ag
gregating abouat 100 hours a month.
He received 25 cents an hour, making
from $20 to $21 a month.
Since graduation he has been offered
numerous positions at $100 a month, or
more. One of these he has now ac
cepted.
He was a member of the Amicus
club during his later college work and
thus bad tbe advantage of more econ
omical living and friendly, helpful association.
COLUMBIA RIVER HIGH
WAY IS JUST BEGUN
(From the Oregonian)
The Moro Observer has made the dis
concerting discovery that the Columbia
Kiver highway is a myth.
"Notwithstanding all the advertising
and praise for the highway between
eastern and western Oregon, declares
the Observer, "there is no such thing.
There is a road tbat is narrow, rocky
and full of waves in tbe dirt sections
and having sudden and sharp curves
and grades and no warning signs of tbe
danger ahead for anyone traveling at a
speed in excess of ten miles or less vpr
nour. . . . it is amusing to bear
Portland people talk about being over
the Highway: they are very careful to
stop before getting to the end of the
pavement in Multnomah county.'
The obvious design of the Observer
is to stimulate an interest by eastern
Oregon counties in the projection and
completion of a well made highway be
yond the limits of Multnomah county.
Hood River has done something a
good deal in proportion to its resources
and Wasco county realizes that it has
a clear duty in tbe premises, and is
moving to do it. But for the most part
eastern Oregon is leaving the Colum
bia highway to posterity and Multno
mah county.
The great value of the Columbia
highway to Portland commercial.
scenic and sentimental is apparent to
all. It should be no less valuable to
eastern and central Oregon. There
ought to be a well considered plan for
us extension, worked out harmoniously
Detween tbe counties and the state.
It is unthinkable that Oregon having
embarked on a great project of build
ing a tine road up and down the Colum
bia river should stop with the work
half done.
'I am surprised to read in the die
patches from Maine that William M
Insraham. assistant secretary of war,
claims that the Democrats are to be
credited with giving the country the
best army bill that has ever been
passed.
we tiepuDiicans. saia Represents
tive Julius Kahn, of California, rank
ing minority member of the bouse eom
mittee on military artairs, "have ai
ways contended that the national de
fense is not a matter or party pontics.
Every patriotic eitisen is equally inter?
I esiea in seeing mi cuuiury property
prepared regardless of political affllia
tions.
"As a matter of fact many of tbe
provisions of the preparedness law Of
June 3, 1916, were written into the
measure by Republican Tbis is es
pecially true of such provisions aM
those providing xor an enlisted reserve
corps, for an increased medical corps.
for training camps lor civilians, for
short term enlistments, far tbe manu
f acture oi toois ana gauges in times oi
peace ao that the suddIv of amoniiion
lean aaateiially be Increased in times of
Prather Finds Unique Flowers
While repairing a fence on his Sum
mit farm last week Geo. T. Prather
discovered a peculiar flower, the
branches of which reared themselves
from a mossbank in the deep shade of
a fence corner. The plant seemed to
be of the mushroom family, but on
digging up some of them, Mr. Prather
found roots penetrating tbe earth be
neatb the moss to a depth of eight
inches. The flower stalks are about
eight inches in length. Tbe flowers
are bell shaped. Both flowers and
stalks are of a glistening, waxlike
white.
"In all my traveling through the
Northwest," says Mr. Prather. who
will show the discovery to botanists. "I
have never seen any prettier or more
remarkable flowers."
Some of the plants have been left at
the uiacier office.
Huckleberry Crop Is Light
Huckleberries are very scarce. was the
message brought back last week bv
Sheriff Johnson and William Munroe
who returned from tbe Lost Lake dis
trict after a week's outing.
"weather conditions of tbe past
spring and summer." says Sheriff
Johnson, prooaoiy cut the crop short.
At certain placea in tbe huge wild
huckleberry acreage we found tbe vines
fairly loaded, while all surrounding
bushes were barren. Indiana who have
gone into the district this season are
expressing great disappointment.
Mr. Johnson says tbat the buckle
berry fields to tbe east of Lost Lake
are being denuded of tbeir foliage by
immense swarms of grasshoppers.
It is not likely that Hood River
county will be in position to make ap
plication for funda to be appropriated
between now and tbe end of the fiscal
year, June 80, 1917, under the recently
passed Federal Aid Roads Act County
Judge Stanton has received from the
United States forestry office in Port
land a synopsis of tbe new Isw, which
provides tbat applications for funds to
be appropriated between now and June
30 of next year must be made before
October 1. 1916. According to the
communication to Judge Stanton, the
application must be accompanied by a
survey of the road proposed to be im
proved, tbe estimated cost and a
statement of tbe benefits that will
accrue to districts contiguous to the
national forests and agricultural lands
adjacent. Tbe application must also
be referred ultimately to tbe state
Highway Commission for approval.
Hood River county authorities, how
ever, contemplate applying next year
for a portion of the federal fund for
improvement of a trunk lino road
through the valley, connecting the
Columbia highway ' with the proposed
link of the Loop road passing through
the national forest around the east
base of Mount Hood to the old Barlow
road.
"We want to work out definite plans
in full accord with those of the State
Highway Commission," says Judge
Stanten.
For the purpose of discussing the
proposed trunk line road through the
valley and to further work out some
plan for road improvement in the
orchard districts next year, D. G.
Cruikshank, president of tbe Commer
cial club, called a meeting last
night of a committee of 24 citizens,
representatives of the city council.
granges of the community. the county
court and other local interests.
ine plans, as advanced isbi nignt,
were devised by the committee com
posed of Truman Butler, Judge Stan
ton, H. T. Parr, Dr. J. D. tiuttery, w.
Langille and Harry Connaway. the
outlook for better roads in Hood River
county was never better. The primary
motive of tbe meeting of last night,
participated in by all interests of both
city and valley, was to outline some
system of surveying, building and
maintaining roads without waste oi
money. "In other words," says Mr.
Cruikshank, "we want to get a dollar's
worth of road for every dollar's worth
of money expended."
Stanley-Smiti Gets Timber
The Stanley-Smith Lumber Co. was
the successful bidder for four milion
feet of national forest timber adver
tised for sale in sections 25 and 26. and
has just been awarded tbe sale by Dis
trict rorestery ueorge H. Cecil, fort-
land.
One dollar and 15 cents per tboussnd
for all species was the bid price. Tbe
timber is 80 per cent Douglas fir. Tbe
remaining 20 per cent is made up of
noble fir, western white pine, western
red cedar, western hemlock and amab-
ilis fir.
i Go to Law, The Cleaner.
DEFINITE ROAD
PLAN IS AIM
ALL WORKING FOR GENERAL SURVEY
County Cannot Get Federal Aid This Year
But Will Probably Apply
Next Year
IROWERS AGENCY FOR
MALLY SET IN MOTION
Representatives of Hood River's
fruit interests arrived home Sunday
morning from Walla Walla, where on
Saturday they attended a meeting at
which machinery of the Fruit Growers
Agency, Incorporated, was formally set
in motion for a more orderly and
broader distribution of northwestern
fruit crops. Local men present at the
meeting were: Wilmer Sieg, sales
manager of tbe Apple Growers Associ- '
ation ; P. S. Davidson, J. C. Porter and
W. B. Dickeraon, comprising the advis
ory committee of the board of directors
of the local sales organization.
Mr. Sieg states that tbe Walla Walla
meeting was well attended by repre
sentatives of the majority of north
western fruit growers and sales con
cerns. Six representatives of different
bureaus of the United States depart
ment of agriculture met with the mem
bers of tbe new growers organization,
assuring apple men that they would
have the support and cooperation of
the government in carrying out tbe
plans outlined under constitution and
bylaws of the Fruit Growers' Agency.
"The government men," says Mr.
Sieg, "told us that their departments
were keenly interested in tne welfare
of the Northwestern apple industry
The office of the new central agency
will be used to disseminate information
gathered by tbe vast machinery of the
department of agriculture. The Fruit
Growers' Agency, with practically
every large fruit interest in tbe four
states of Montana, Idaho, Oregon and
Washington subscribing to it, has
reached the stage where it will become
a potent factor in the future advance
ment of the fruit industry of the four
states. Up to the present time the
activities of the Growers' Agency and
its predecessor, the fruit urowers
Council, the latter organized through
the initiative of growers themselves at
Tacoma, Wash., year before last, al
ways more or less indefinite, have been
nevertheless stimulating to the indus
try. The new agency, which has
reached a permanent basis, is having
tbe influence of a lasting tonic.
"Fruit men who were present at the
meeting returned to their homes with
feeling of optimism, it is true that
tbe work of the Agency can be rendered
ineffectual, provided growers and sales
agencies fait to make use of a modi
cum of common sense in their relstions
with each other. The necessity for
absolute cooperation, however, 1 think
was- apparent to all of us present at
Walla Walls."
Mr. Sieg saya that tbe goveinment
representatives working with Capt.
Paul H. weyrauch.of Walla Walla, will
in the next few weeks send to all
Northwestern agenciea and growers,
members of the Agency, an outline of
the definite plans to be pursued in the
dissemination of crop data and sugges
tions of marketing and distribution.
"Somehow or other," says Mr. Sieg,
the idea haa gone abroad that the
new Agency would fix prices for ap
ples. A practice of tbis nature would
be prohibited under tbe Sherman Anti
trust law. Members of tbe Agency,
however, may confer and determine
the necessary value to be placed on
fruit in order to secure a profitable re
turn to growers, that is, a price over
and a Dove tne cost of actual production
and charges on investment."
Dating Stamps, Self Inking Stamps
Pocket Stamps, Pen and Pencil Stamps
Eto., made to order at tbe Glacier of
fice at Portland prices,
1
.1
