.X-
•*,'KJ:
The intelligent, common sense
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream?—Gom
pers.
VOL., 23 NO. 25.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 3.—La
tor leaders expect confirmation
of Louis D. Brandeis for the
United States supreme bench
without much difficulty. This was
the opinion of the officers of the
American Federation of Labor.
Frank Morrison, secretary, was
asked whether organized labor
contemplated any action that
would indicate its sentiment to
the senate.
He said that nothing had yet "been
done, because he did not think there
was much danger that the appoint­
ment would be refused confirmation.
"This supposed confirmation," he said,
"is a little flare-up, something that
might be expected immediately after
announcement. But I think that the
opposition exists in the minds of
some people, rather than as an actual
thing."
Miners Endorse Brandeis.
Fourteen hundred delegates to the
convention of the United Mine Work­
ers of America at Indianapolis unani­
mously indorsed the appointment of
Louis D. Brandeis as Associate Justice
of the United States Supreme Court,
declaring him the "one true friend of
the toiling masses in America."
The mines adopted a resolution
which declared that "favored and spe­
cial interests" had insistently urged
the appointment of William Howard
Taft, but that President Wilson had
"ignored these powerful influences,"
and had appointed a "fearless cham­
pion of labor."
Samuel Untermyer, who happened
to be in Washington at the time the
nomination was sent to the senate,
flrl• a a rfinnfty
party to the president (Just before
leaving Washington on his western
trip) given by Secretary McAdoo, at
which Mr. and Mrs. Brandeis were
also invited guests, made a contribu­
tion to the matter by disclaiming re­
sponsibility for suggesting the name
to
the president, but, expressing the
greatest satisfaction over it.
Old Guard Dies Hard.
Untermyer believes the nomination
Initiates a fight between the progres­
sive influence in the Democratic party,
of which Untermyer admits that he
Is an exponent, and the votaries of
big business. Untermyer predicts a
victory for the cause of the "plain
people,'* exemplified by himself and
Brandeis.
After giving out the statement from
the office of Representative Henry, of
Texas, the New York lawyer left for
Miami, Fla.
It was learned early in the week
that Senators La Follette and New
lands, Charles R. Crane and Amos
Pinchot had been consulted about the
matter by Secretary McAdoo, and all
approved of it. Outside of this select
list of progressives, there appears to
hav© been little consultation by the
president.
Align Forces.
Because of the peculiar prominence
of the Boston attorney during the last
few years, there was an immediate
alignment of forces for and against
his confirmation.
Nearly all the Progressive Repub­
licans and Democrats promptly an­
nounced that the nomination was
most gratifying and that they would
do everything in their power to assist
in the confirmation of Mr, Brandeis.
The conservative senators of both
parties came boldly into the open in
UNION LABOR TO BACK UP
Al "2'HTMENT OF BRANDEIS
People's Great Lawyet\^«/'^t. in Senate By Reaction
ary Republicans and Democr«: ^lieved that Majority
of Senators Will Vote for Confirmation.
FORWARD LOOKING PEOPLE OF NATION
WILL WATCH VOTE OF EVERY SENATOR
Organized Labor's Officials and Delegates to United Mine
Workers' Convention Congratulate President Wilson for
Choosing Brandeis for U. S. Supreme Court.
One of the pet arguments of the
militarists is that because, it is assert­
ed, we were "unprepared" at the time
of the Civil War it was prolonged,
and, in fact, really caused thereby.
The latest statement of this argu­
ment is by that high priest of militar­
ism, Henry A. Wise Wood, Chairman
of the Conference Committee on Na­
tional Preparedness. In a syndicate
article printed in scores of newspapers
on Sunday, January 9, 1916, he says:
One Traditional Policy.
The traditional powcy of our fore­
fathers is the very policy which, con­
trary to popular notion, has given this
counttry most of its years of war.
Had the United States been adequate­
ly prepared at the first battle of Bull
Run there would have been no Civil
War costing half a million lives and
approximately $10,398,000,000.
Opponents of militarism believe
standing armies and huge navies, aside
from the wars they involve us in with
other nations, are a constant menace
to the rights of the people, that they
have ever been the ready and "pre­
pared" tools of the exploiting classes'
to subvert the liberties of the people
and to entrench privilege.
opposition to liim and will extend
every effort to beat liim.
Senate Leaders Fight.
The leaders in the fight against the
confirmation of Mr. Brandeis are
Senators Overman and Simmons,
North Carolina Reed, Missouri
Shields, Tennessee and Smith,
Georgia, Democrats, and Nelson, Min­
nesota Wadsworth, New York Smoofc
Utah Works, California Weeks and
Lodge, Massechusetts, and Brandegee, I
Conneticut, Republicans.
Those senators who already have
taken up the cudgels in behalf of his
confirmation are Lewis, Illinois James,
Kentucky Hitchcock, Nebraska Pom
orene, Ohio Chamberlain, Oregon
Lane, Oregon Sheppard, Texas Lea,
Tennessee, and Ashurst, Arizona Ken
yon, Iowa Norris, Nebraska Clapp,
Minnesota, and Gronna, North Dako­
ta, all Republicans.
Weeks and Lodge Opposed.
That the fight on the nominee will
be conducted largely under the lead­
ership of the two senators from his
own state was admitted on all sides.
Both Senators Weeks and Lodge are
bitterly opposed to the nomination.
They are expected to go so far as to
tell the senate they regard Mr. Brand­
eis as personally objectionable to
them.
Another senator who is likely to
make a similar statement Is Nelson,
Minnesota. He was chairman of the
Ballinger-Pinchot investigating com­
mittee during the Taft administration.
As attorney for Glavis during the in­
vestigation Mr. Brandeis had much to
do with turning the tide of public
opinion against Ballinger. Senator
Nelson always has resented this.
Tries to Aid Labor.
Mr. Brandeis has been particularly
pi wnnifnt tuntw uHig"rail­
road and public utility legislation and
regulation. Also, he has taken a prom­
inent part in the movement to wipe
child labor, obtain better hours of
employment for men and women in
industry, obtain better sanitary condi­
tions and to improve the working
man's general standard of living.
He became interested in the work­
ing hours of women and offered to
serve permanently without fee as the
general counsel of the National Con­
sumers' league. In this cause he won
his case for the establishment of a
ten-hour day for women in Oregon
and Illinois.
He interrupted the Plnchot-Ball
inger hearing for four days to go to
Spring-field, 111., to argue, without
charge, the case in that state. His
task was that of inducing the supreme
court of Illinois to reverse itself. He
succeeded.
Finds Evils in Railroads.
It is probably through his connec­
tion with railroad rate cases that Mr.
Brandeis has gained his greatest pub­
licity. He has long contended the
railroads of the country have not been
conducted as. business propositions,
but merely as adjuncts of Wall-st.
He was employed by the oemmerce
commission as its counsel in the 1910
and 1914 eastern advance rate cases.
In both instances he successfully op­
posed the effort of the carriers to get
material increases In their frieght
rates. He admitted they needed more
revenue, but he said they way for
them to obtain it was not through
an increased tax on the public, but
through an extension of economies
in their management.
Attacked by New Haven.
Mr. Brandeis was one of the first
persons in the country to call atten-
(Continued on Page 3.)
No fact of history is better estab­
lished than that during the period in
November, 1860, when Lincoln was
elected, to his inaugeration in March,
1861, the slave aristocracy secured
control of the larger portion of the
munitions of war owned by the United
States, and by reason of this "prepar­
edness" of the United States at the
date of the first battle of Bull Run
the enemies of the Republic were able
to strike an all but fatal blow,
Four of the seven members of
Buchanan's cabinet were irom the
slave States and at least one of the
remaining three was a northern "cop­
perhead,"
How It Was Done Once.
John B. Floyd^.of Virginia, was sec­
retary of war. He was an aristocrat,
and when the time came to strike a
blow against freedom he seized the
measure of "preparedness" the United
States had and turned it over to the
Confederacy.
Because of the frequency with
which the Wood argument is used
and its plausible nature, I shall pre­
sent conclusive proof of the above.
In doing so shall quote union as
well as dis-uiilon /authorities.
WOULD SELL PROP
Today, Friday, is the last day for filing petitions
the submission to the people of the ordinance to sell, thp
old armory to private parties for $50,000.
In all probability a sufficient number of signers wi^S
be secured to demand an election on the proposed ordi­
nance. There has been no organized attempt made ill
obtain the names of voters to the 40 petitions which are
being circulated by volunteers. j.
These volunteers are workingmen. The work thejr
are doing to save the armory for the people is belug
done at night or on Sundays. Not one dollar has beejOt
spent by anyone in behalf of the attempt to use the
people's veto on the armory ordinance. If we had monei
to spend, more than 50 per cent, of the voters could bf
induced to sign the petitions Of this there is no doubtl
The more that people think about the sale of the
armory, the more* convinced they become that the coins
missioners are making a mistake. The opposition is
manifest among business men as it is among the worl&
ers. If the editor of The Labor World had the time t§
make a personal canvass he is certain he could obtain
more than a sufficient number of signers to demand &
referendum election.
Our editorial last week, in which we discussed th§
possibilities the armory afforded for a public gyni?
nasium, attracted city-wide attention. Thousands of
people attended the poultry show last week and all werer
impressed with the advantages offered by the armory
for such public uses. Regrets were expressed on every
side that the commissioners had voted to sell th$
building.
We are this week in receipt of letters from several
citizens throughout the country, in which are stated the
policies governing such cities in retaining public prop­
erty. We are printing extracts from these letters. Rea$
them and you will learn something about what other
cities have experienced in disposing of public lands. DU-:
luth should profit from the lessons learned at great coet
to other cities. Our letter from San Francisco last week
was a corker. Here are a few others:
Mayor Thompson of Chicago—"It is our experience
in Chicago that not enough land is being held by the
municipality to meet the needs of the increasing popu­
Telegraphers' Union to Make
Charges Before Congress Com­
mittee on Postoffices.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 3.—A cam­
paign was begun today by the national
railway telegrapher's union to prevent
the railroads from receiving $2,000,
000 annually from the government for
dellveriny mail from railroad stations
to small postoffices.
H. B. Perham, of the telegraphers'
union, fighting the proposed appro­
priation, will appear Monday "before
the House Postoffice Committee. He
declared today the $2,000,000 is pock­
eted by the railroads and the extra
work loaded on the telegraphers and
station agents without extra pay, al­
though outside the line of their
duties.
If the government would stop pay­
ing the railroads for he service, ac­
cording Perham, and use he $*2,000,
000 in paying posmasers exra expen­
ses, it would save money, have the
mail handled entirely by government
employes and lighten the work of the
telegraphers and station agents.
VIRGINIA MAY HAVE
COMPENSATION LAW
RICHMOND, Va., Fieb. 3.—In a
special message to the general assem­
bly, Governor Stuart recommended
legislation that would provide for
wokmen's compensation, a preferential
primary selection of candidates for
state offices and the appointment of
a commission to study the question
of rural credits with a view of es­
tablishing such a system in Virginia.
As early as Dec. 29, 1859, accord­
ing to a report of a congressional com­
mittee, Floyd had-ordered the trans­
fer of 65,000 percussion muskets, and
10,000 percussion rifles from the arm­
ories at Springfield, Mass., and the
arsenals at Watervliet, N. Y., and
Watertown, Mass., to the arsenals at
Fayettsville, N.. C„ Charleston, S. C.,
Augsta, Ga., Mt. Vernon, Ala., and
Baton Rouge, La., and these were dis­
tributed in the spring of 1860 before
the meeting of the Democratic Con­
vention at Charleston.
Jeff Davis Worked It.
Eleven days after the issuing of the
order, Jan. 9, 1860, Jefferson Davis
introduced into the United States Sen­
ate a bill "to authorize the sale of
public arms to the several States and
Territories, and to regulate the ap­
pointment of superintendents of the
national armories."
Senator Fessenden, of Maine, offered
an amendment, March 26, 1860 that
would have deprived the Davis bill
of mischief, but it was lost, and the
bill passejd by a strict party vote, 2
Democrats to 18,Republit:aqs.
It« losing out in the House, how­
FOE SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL PEOGBESS.
Ttheory
LABOR DEPARTMENT
STUDIES ACCIDENTS
W. F. HOUK.
Under the direction of W. F. Houlc,
Commissioner of Labor, the Minne
sott Department of Labor is making
an enviable record in the study of
accidents to workmen. Its activitiy
in requiring that all place where
laborers are employed be safely
guarded is attracting the attention of
safety first advocates everywhere.
SEEKS EMPLOYMENT
FOR FAIR EMPLOYES
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 3.—Presi­
dent Moore, of the exposition manage­
ment, announces that a special em­
ployment bureau has been established
to find work for former employes.
It is stated that the exposition has
had on its payroll at in time over
4,000 employes, and practically every
profession, calling and trade is rep­
resented.
SOME GLARING INCIDENTS OF "PREPAREDNESS" IN AMERICAN
ever, did not deter Floyd and by a
stretch of authority under an old act
of Congress (1825) Floyd sold to the
States and individuals in. the South
over 31,000 muskets for only $2.50
each. On Nov. 27, 1860, he sold 10,
000 muskets to G. B. Lamar, of
Georgia, and on the sixteenth lie had
sold 5,000 to "Virginia.
The Mobile ,(Alabama) Advertiser
said:
During the Civil War.
During the past year 135,430 mus­
kets have been quietly transfered from
the Northern arsenal at Springfield
alone to those of the Southern states.
We are much obliged to Secretary
Floyd for the foresight he has thus
displayed in disarming the North and
equipping the South for'this emer­
gency. There is no telling the quanti­
ty of arms and munitions which were
sent South, from other arsenals. There
is no doubt that every man in the
South who can carry a gun can now
be supplied irom private or public
sources.
Pollard, a Virginia historian of the
war, said:
4
It is safely estimated that the South,
entered upon the .war with 150,000.
lation. Sites for municipal purposes, buildings and
Playgrounds that could be acquired at one time for a
nominal figure are now being purchased at great cost
tjt the city."
City-Glerk N. C. Greenlee, Denver—^"This city has
not disposed of any property it has acquired. No grow­
ing city can afford to do so."
LMartin H. Witter, Register, St. Louis—"We acquired
moBt of our city property many years ago, but within
fifteen years it has become necessary to acquire lands
fO^ public uses in congested centers. We are holding
pjrdierty down town suitable for public uses, but there
i£ jL6 disposition to dispose of it. I think our record
clagrly illustrates the fact that a growing city shouid
nfflpsell nor lose a favorable opportunity to acquire land
actable for public uses."
C. J. Brown, City Clerk, Winnipeg—"Our city offi­
cii!* have wisely looked ahead. We have sufficient pub­
lic-property to meet the needs of this city for many years
to? come. There may be justification for leasing prop­
erty we have no immediate use for, but we would not
th|nk of selling it."
R. E. Collins, City Clerk, Cleveland—"We have a
ppetty well defined understanding in this city that the
ci|y ought not dispose of property it has acquired on the
that some day it may be very useful to the city."
Richard Lindsay, City Clerk, Detroit—"I do not
know of any instance where land owned by the city has
been disposed of. We are expending millions to pur­
chase lands for public buildings and we regret that we
did not do so years ago."
Space will not permit the printing of other letters
equally as interesting as those quoted above. Every one
of these indicates that the real live cities of the country
are opposed to disposing of any of their real estate hold­
ings at any price.
We have made many mistakes in Duluth. Shall the
sale of the armory be another? Mr. Voter, it is up to
you. If you have not signed a referendum petition, do
so today. This will be your last chance to voice your
protest. What are you going to do about it? The La­
bor World has performed its duty. Will you perform
yours?
duluth and Superior, February 5,1916. TWO CENTS.
E
Pennsylvania Religious Institu­
tions Liable for Injury to
Pastors and Employes.
PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 6.—Mem­
bers of churches of all denominations
in every part of Pennsylvania have
discovered that they are liable for the
safety for their pastors, janitors and
paid choir singers under the. new
workmen's compensation act, which
went into effect Jan. 1. The results
"has been a perfect flood of applica­
tions for state insurance tinder, the
act, and now fully 90 per cent oiC the
churches' in the state have Insured
their employes. This is regarded by
the members of the compensation
board as one of the greatest triumphs
of the operation of the new law.
The Catholic churches were first to
qualify under this feature of the new
act, the board believes, because of
their superior organization and meth­
od of administration.
NATION-WIDE PLANS
MADE FOR "BABY WEEK"
WASHINGTON, Feb. 5.—Plans for
a "baby week" In March are being
made by more than 400 communities,
announces the children's bureau of
the department of labor. The need
of bettering conditions surrounding
babies will be impressed on the gen­
eral public and the proper care of
infants described during the week. It
Is felt by those behind the movement
that this agitation will create a senti­
ment against the annual death of
30,000 babies before they are 12
months old.
small arms of the »nost approved
modern pattern and the best in the
world.
Floyd also furnished the South with
heavy ordnance. Forts in the*South
that would not have been ready for
armaments irr five years were rushed
to completion. Floyd later became a
general in the Confederate Army as
did thousands of other men "pre­
pared" for war by the United States
at West Point.
Matter of History.
As an instance of .the "going-over"
of the "prepared" officers Floyd, as
Secretary of War of the United States
Government, sent General David
Twiggs to Texas and in February,
I860,, Twiggs entered the Confederate
Army and turned over to Texas his
entire army corps with ordnance,
transport, and other stOrds valued at
$1,200,00.
So then it appears that the United
States was "prepared'' prior to the
first battle of Bull Run,, but that in­
stead of "preparedness* being used to
save the United States it was used in
large part to destroy it. This is the
history of standing armies, used to
destroy popular government.
Day For Meeting Appropriate.
The speaker expressed his high ap­
preciation of the compliment paid
him by the invitation to address the
meeting, and declared that the day
selected for the meeting was emi­
nently appropriate, coming as it did
so soon after the hosts of organized
labor had contributed so liberally to
4 the relief of the Danbury hatters.
The labor organizations of the coun­
try had done whatever injury the
Loewe Hat company had suffered,
but the Danbury. hatters were paying
the penalty, and it was altogether
right that the union men everywhere
in the land should help them out.
Courts Still Have Narrow View.
Commenting on the effect of the
dissolution of the Standard Oil mon­
opoly, Mr. McEwen said that the
stock of the trust, now held by its
former constituent companies, had
risen from a value of $600 to one of
In addition to "preparedness" thus
shown on land we were also "pre­
pared on water, contrary to what Mr.
Wood says.
The Committee on Naval Affairs of
the House reporting on Feb. 21, 1861,
declared that we had a navy at the
outbreak of the war that was abso­
lutely "adequate" and "prepared."
but an aristocrat in the Cabinet of
President feuchanan had seen to it
that it was Scattered to the four winds
of heaven. But here's the report of
the cdmmittee:
Engmterljlvide Navy.
The 0&mmittee are of the opinion
that the Secretary of the Navy had it
in his power, with the present naval
force of the country at his command,
and without materially imparlqig the
efficiency of .the service abroad, at
any time after the -settled purpose of
overthrowing the government had .be­
came nianifest, and before that pur­
pose had developed itself in overt acts
of violence to station at anchor, with­
in reach of his own orders, a force
equal, to the protection of all the
property and all the rights of the
government and the jcitizehs, as1well
:as
the
flair fit
The wor]
the country, ftfom
bfe most frff
by the woi
terest of
be dominated
tellectnals or .—Gompers.
TO MAKE WALSH REPORT
UNION LABOR'S TEXT BOOK
St. Paul Labor Men In-Mass Meeting Hear Industrial Relations
Commission Report Discussed At Length—Will Urge
Congress to Pass Relief Laws.
UNION MEN PLAN TO HAVE SECTIONS OF
REPORT DISCUSSED AT EVERY MEETING
W. E. McEwen, Editor of The Labor World, Delivers Strong
Address In Which He Completely Analyzes Conclusions
of Majority Members of Great Labor Commission.
St. Paul workingmen turned
out in large numbers last Sunday
afternoon to hear prominent labor
men discuss the report of the
Commission on Industrial Rela­
tions. The meeting was held at
trade union hall and was presided
over by George Greenville, presi­
dent of the St. Paul Trades and
Labor Assmbly.
The following account of the
meeting was prepared by the ed­
itor of the Minnesota Union Advocate
for publication in this week's
issue
of
that splendid labor paper:
Lawson Tells Purpose of Meeting.
George W. Lawson, secretary of
the Trades and Labor Assembly, ex­
plained why" the meetingg had been
called and what it was expected to
do. He said the late federal commis­
sion on industrial relations was the
first federal commission in the his­
tory of the country that had made
an honest and fearless investigation
and truly and clearly reported its
findings without timidity toward or
favor for any class. He stated that
the meeting was one of many hun­
dreds to be held in all parts of the
country to creat public sentiment in
favor of the recommendations con­
tained in the commission's report to
congress and bring pressure to bear
on the members of the senate and
house of epresentatives to Induce
them to carry those recommendations
into effect. He then introduced W.
E. McEwen, (formerly secretary of
the Minnesota State Federation of
Labor and now postmaster of Du­
luth, who was the only other speaker
ItlcEwep Hakes an Excellent Speech,
-y ^eF.en is #, Rrijno- ffcForitfi as
a speaktr Jn .st. Paul labor circles,
and he was received with much ap
Piause. He explained his Inability
to properly prepare himself for the
occasion owing to an
unexpected
pressure of business in his office. He
said that he would, therefore, have to
confine himself to practical remarks,
but
he feared in his attempt to do so
he might be led into the common er­
ror of extemporaneous speakers, that
of trying to "cover too»much terri­
tory," which he illustrated with a
stoy told by W. J. Bryan. It must
be said, however, that, although Mr
McEwen talked for an hour and a
half, lie did not "cover too much
ground," tout delivered an address
that was exactly to the point, plain,
practical and sensible, and that
pleased all his hearers, who gave him
close attention from the beginning
to the end of his talk.
any
$2,QOO a share since the dissolution,
thus making rich men more than
three times as rich as they were be­
fore and impoverishing the working
people in the same ratio. It seems
impossible, he stated, for the courts
to learn to distinguish between the
substances on ^hich men work and
the souls which animate them—be­
tween dead matter and the human
being of the workingman. Some few
of the judges have acquired this
power, but as a body they are slow
in getting it, and it is this want
of perception that makes them so
unjust and unreasonable in labor
cases which come before them for
trial.
Commission's Report Discussed.
Turning his attention directly to
the Walsh report of the federal in­
dustrial commission, the speaker de­
clared that the work of that com
mission was the most courageous "and
straightforward in our history. He
stated that the commission had in­
vestigated our industrial relations«
and the causes of unrest without
reservation and had suggested a rem­
edy for every ill it had found. He
called attention to the fact that a.
strong effort has been made by the
privileged interests to prevent having
the report of the commission printed.
They feared its publication because
all it contained was true, while the
working people wanted it for the
same reason. He then urged the
union men present to arrange to have
the report read and discussed from
time to time in the meetings of their
organizations, as it crystalized the
wrongs done to working people of
this country by their employers -dur­
ing the last 50. years.
Salient Points of Report Noted.
Mr McEwen called attention speci­
fically to sundry strong points in the
commission's report. He showed how
it effectually disposes of all argu­
ments drawn from comparisons with
past conditions in the industries
establishes that working people
should get more than a mere living
for their labor. He claimed that they
were entitled to the full product of
their labor. In this connection he
cited figures showing that the wealth
of the country had increased 188 per
cent in 22 years, and the wage-earn-,
er's share of the net product was now
only 40.2} per cent, whereas In 1889
it was over 44 per cent.
Four Specific Causes of Unrest.
Recurring to the industrial com­
mission's report, Mr. McEwen noted
that it named four things as specific1
and leading causes of unrest among?
the American working people. These
are:
1. Unjust and unequal distribution
of wealth.
2. Unemployment and denial of
opportunity to make a living.
0. Denial of justice in the crea­
tion and administration of law.
4. Denial of the right and oppor­
tunity to form effective organizations.
In discussing these the speaker re-
called the history of the, past. He
alluded to the feudal §lavery of long
•ago and said it had been succeeded
in our day by industrial slavery
brought about by the Improvement
and multiplication of machinery and
the granting of large volumes of the
natural resources of the country to
a few privileged men. He reminded
his hearers that the workers had al­
ways resisted encroachments on their
rights, but they were helpless until
they learned" the power of organiza­
tion. Meanwhile the bosses had gone
on, stealing for their own benefit
(Continued on Page
2.)<p></p>HISTORY
outrage or insult at any point on the
whole Atlantic seaboard. The failure
to do this is without justification or
excuse.
"Preparedness" can go no further
than here indicated, a naval force
adquate to defend not alone our en­
tire coast but our over-sea Interests
and the flag everywhere. In view of
this, what of Mr. Wood's argument?
The truth is the United States is
lucky it had no more "preparedness"
than it did at the time of the out­
break of the Civil War.
~-:*¥ashiiigton'8 Advice.
Mr. Wood, in common with all mil­
itarists, scorns the "policy of our
forefathers" and holds up as a model
for a democratic republic to copy the
policy of kings and kaisers and czars.
George Washington was no molly-i
coddle. He was first in war and yet,
this general, in his last and most
matured message to the people of this
country, in his Farewell Address, said:
Avoid those overgrown military es- i'
tablishments, which under any form of
'government are inauspicious to liber­
ty, and which are to be regarded as
particularly-hostile to republican lib
$rty- .v.
-J
|,and
ITi
sK]
•J
I
