$nt rt-rv
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
i-
nc;
t VOL. H-3ST0. 12d
PUILADELiPniA, SATUBDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 15) JLO.
CortmoiiT, 1010, nr the Ptmrtc I.rDor.s Coiitant.
PB10J3 QUE CENT
f. -f;g.rT -
W r
mrtig
Sgjg Ssfe S?ic9'
iff vm'!w 'PEmyMmi
BERLIN FAIL
TO SATISFY U.
ON LUSITANIA
Washington Pessimistic De
spite Additional Power
Given BernstorflMo
End Dispute
Linking
HELD LEGAL
K
.Further Conferences Will Be!
Held -Wilson Studies lie
port From House
AMSTERDAM. Feb. 5. Private
" Berlin advices received in influential
quarters in Holland today report that
Germany has offered in its reply to
the United States to submit to a
neutral court the question ot legality
of the sinking of the Lusitania, this
tribunal to consist of representatives
of leading neutral nations and to meet
at once to draft rules for submarine
warfare.
WASHINGTON, Feb. B
A situation ot gravo Import today con
fronted the American people. That which
half the country has feared would result
from the nuropenn war nnd which the
other half has believed Impossible seemed
within sight The embroilment of Amer
ica In tho quarrel and even participation
In tho devastating struggle seems ho per
ilously near that nniei.il Washington
tensed with anticipation
The Administration has cauieil It to be
' Known that certain definite demands hae
been made on Germany growing out ot
tho sinking of tho Lusitania, Tho Ger
man Government has caused it to be
known that these demands aro refused.
This after almost a. jcar ot dlplomutlc
exchanges.
Tho point has been reached where ono
Government or tho other must buck
down
President Wilson, for the American pco-
pie, has let It be declared America will
not. The Gciman Foreign Ofllcc, in
statements Intended for tho German peo
ple and tho American people has said tho
timo is true of that goveinment.
BIJRNSTORFF OPTIMISTIC.
Ono optimistic person optimistic In ex
pression, at least stood out today Count
Von Bernstorff, German Ambassador.
Tho Embassador's optimism was clear
ly based on his belief that ho can pro
pose a compromise that will not only
be acceptable to tho t'nltcd States, but
will bo ratified by his homo Government.
It In known that tho messago he received
I yesterday from Berlin, and tho contents
Bota'fitch ho ccmmunleated to Lansing.
VWM-sucn n. compromise a bUDStituuon
of milder phraso for tho term "Illegal'
tn,tttt TI1I3 suggestion, however, left
the situation unchanged, according to
Lansing.
Whether tho Ambassador also has in-
it structlons that will pennlt htm to con
j ctijomoro Is, c-f course, not known. Ills
pvsiuuu iieccHsuniy is null n huh kuiiu
as far as ho vun go, but It Is Indicated
he has reason to hellcvn that tho Presi
dent, In tho light of Colonel House's re
port,' can see his way to accept tho com
promise.
State Depaitment nfliclals this nfter
noon declared there Is no deadlock In the
Lusitania negotiations It was stated em
phatically that tho Informal confeionccs
.between Secretary Lansing and Count
von Bernstorff have not been teimlnated.
The Ambassador expects to see Mr. Lan
sing just as soon us the latter cnnfeis
with the President. President Wilson ex
pects to confer with Secretary Lansing
today.
President 'W llson, by Intimations from
the Whlto House, considers a crisis
reached, and Secretary Lansing's fajv
utterances are to tho sama effect. Tho
I r German Ambassador today insisted that
mailers are not In such serious shape,
but belled his own Government's utter
ances when ho did so.
AH Administration affairs today were
i submerged under tho cloud of tho Lusl
tarda negotiations. President Wilson and
Secretary Lansing planned to confer at
length over Germany's reply sent yes
terday through Ambassador von Bern
storff. The President had hla first real on.
Portunity, with practically nil White
jiuuaa engagements canceled, to analyze
the German portion Secretary Lansing
alio devoted himself exclusively to the
ominous problem.
Another f rttirnnnip. h.lw..li An.hiean
Jor von Bernstorff and Secretary Lansing
had been Intended today, nut It was be
loved It would be postponed until early
next week For today, at least, no decislv e
ten was planned Before tho Cabinet
meets next Tuesday, however, It was ex-
Continued on I'nee Konr, Column roar
THE WEATHER
iV "J; 'w more of these crystal, clean-cut,
-..nam com days nnd we will begin to
Wvertlse tho climate of riilla'delphla In
.wad of trying to conceal it. This Is tho
Und Of UPfltll.1. whoit . ma,, nolo an....
-, wasn't born to the lot of a teamster
J a policeman. How dull to be a bank
PMJldent nnd have to Btay In a warm
im most of a line day like today or
-J ''"day, when, with a little luck, one
"bjnt be galloping about the suburbs on
Eallant tinria ..!...( i. wt.iin-nin
... ..".ut, .jujr,l, 111Q K .llliaiUilllt,
Hi Of a Inountprl nnllft.tn.ln. Onn mnM
Ejvea envy the shoelers of snow und of
ccai, wno can j,e outdoors in the. "In-
i'nee, intoxicating air.
HUt. JUSt fnr fAus ttra nlai.Ai nt nil.
X!fr, we choose to huddle Indoors, next the
fWMtor.
FORECAST
For Phlln.lvir.i.tr. .; .,.;:...
kiurallu cloudy and warmer tonight;
pwndoi fair and somewhat colder;
"" vumn viajnng io we3i winas.
r ueiaua see page 15,
Lost Aim vrtiftrn
watth-t..
CJ f.oa ubay car to City Jlatl. a 12 tlze
liiHS"'. Pln' nUraped inalda No.
Siwij i ,. liberal reward an.1 no oueatlona
6?S ,imea io j, ;. iiaweu & uc
iSEhfiitnut l
iSf.f IN Jt cold chaia st with ptarU and
crv"'". pun cnamou oaK. aooui jan-
HIT IT Pl... .. . llnv 'Mil TnuaM.nH.
H? receive reward
VAt I', pearl neikUue with iearl
f i'l lasp Uberul reward Raturn to Z.
5qulnot Itii -Walnut at
ixr Lo.t and louud Ad on I'age IS
laugh With Zapp and Biysky as
THREE PRIZE WINNERS IN PINE ARTS ACADEMY EXHIBITION
WiiM&M$kMimMWJiim:mimmMmi
mgmwmmmmimmmmmwmMm
mHm lsssssmmsB
mm" Sf
. . . . . lypKwi4r J&K I
KIMAWIA MACC176 m mW .
ARMY OF 500,000 Jm0
ALONG FRONTIER M
wit
M.L.'l.'-J.- XT!-, m-tl.. m TSk : WAR
of Total Forces Sug- gf lk j
gests War Sr w
RUSSIAN FRONTIER OPEN , If
IIUCIIAREST, Rumania, Feb. o.
The Rumanian Government, it was
announced today, has made arrange
ments for a foreign loan of 210,000,000
francs ($12,000,000). It was stated
semiofficially that, this was a prepara
tory war measure.
nOMi:, Feb. G.
Tho Itumanlan army Is nine-tenths mo
bilized by tho decree Issued Thursday
calling to tho colors tho class of ISM In
advance of tholr rcgulnr schedule. More
than a half million troops uro now massed
along tho Bulgarian nnd Hungarian fron
tiers. Private advices received hero to
day report that Itumnnla Is ready to In
tervene on tho sido of tho Allies at tho
first opportune moment.
Tho Bulgarian Government has closed
tho entire HumanUn frontier, excepting
tho cities of Onorltose and Pobrugla, mis
trusting Rumania's Intentions. Tho Bul
garian newspapeis dccl.iro It significant
that no Rumanian troops nro concen
trated along tho Russian frontier.
Heavy urtllleiy from tho Rumanian
Black Sea forts Is being moved toward
tho Hungarian frontier, according to ad
vices received here. The Rumanians are
erecting stiong foitiflcitions along the
Bulgailnn boidei, expecting n Bulgarian
offensive in case they nttuck tlunguo
In tho Inst week tho Austiltin and Gor
man nowspapers have openly expi cased
doubts rcgnrdlng the futuro attltudo of
tho Bucharest Government.
Several Important developments rjavn
tended to hasten' Rumania's nlignment
C'onllntint on race l'our. Column SU
MTODLaTTOYMMED
UNDER A DEEP SNOW
Trains Are Blocked at Many
Points Four Feet on Mich
igan Peninsula
CinCAaO, Feb 5. Tho snowstorm
that has brought peril to half a dozou
Northwestern towns, marooned for weeks,
renched tho Mlddlo West today, nddlng
..worn! inriips of Kiinw to tho mantle that
covered tho ground from two to thrco feet
in depth In some Dakota cities.
Trains from Tortland, Seattlo and other
north coast points, wnicn nave ufeu
ploughing their way through great drifts
for several days, found their progress
further blocked nt many points today. Do-,
lajs or from five to 15 hours wero en
countered. Tho storm developed In the western
plains States, and had lost considerable
of Its force when It reached Chicago.
Clear, cold weather la in sight tomorrow.
Dispatches from Calumet, Mich., today
said blizzards which have raged Inter
mittently for live weeks have burled the
upper end of the Michigan peninsula un
der four feet qf snow and that all truffle
Is demoralized.
LECTURE AT STOTESBURYS'
Mile. Jcano Moos, of France, Will Ad
dress Prominent Women
An announcement printed n a morning
newspaper, to tho effect that a lecture by
Mile. Jeano Moos, at the home of Mrs.
I.'dward T. Stotesbury, 1325 Walnut street,
would not be given. Is Incorrect. The
lecture will be given, as t first announced,
on Monday afternoon at 4 o'clock.
Mile. Moos 19 a memoer oi ino jven
Cross and Of tho Union of French
Women. She has been right on the spot
In France and has seen the fearful suf
ferings the wounded soldiers have on.
dured on the Ions trip across the country,
without food, for many hours. She was
one of those to organize the canteen eta
tlons, which are now placed at Intervals
along the way, and the rallroad3 co,
operate In this by stopping at tho various
stations long enough to permit the sol
diers to eat. Women who aro Interested
In the preparedness movement Will And
Mile. Mpos' experience most Instructive.
Westtown Girl's Assailant Guilty
WEST CHBSTEB. Pa.. Feb. 6. Paul
Caulfleld. of Dovvnlngtown, was convicted
In Criminal Court here on the charge of
criminal asault upon ChrUtlne Hew. II
years old, of Westtown. An application
was made for a new trial and sentence
was suspended
pr,,mM.w;.Kw,uuj
I'hotos by Chippcll SUM In.
Joseph T. Pearson, Jr., of this
city, today was awarded two
prizes for his painting, "In the
Valley," above. He wins both
the Temple gold medal and the
E. T. Stotcsbury prize, offered
for the best oil painting by an
American. Tho portrait of Dr.
Felix Adler brought Douglas
Volk tho Carol H. Beck gold
medal. "The Spirit of the Woods"
sculpture won the George D.
Widener gold medal for Edward
M. McCarton.
FINE ARTS EXHIBITION,
ALL-AMERICAN SHOW,
HAS RARE CANVASES
Will Bo Opened to the Public
Tomorrow Afternoon 459 N
Paintings Are on
View
MANY FINE PORTRAITS
Prize-Winners at
Academy Art Exhibit
Temple gold medal, for best pic
ture painted in oil without ree;ard
to subject, open to American ar
tists only, to Joseph P. Pearson,
Jr., for picture "In tho Valley."
Edward T. Stotesbury prize, for
best painting or Broun of paint
ings never before publicly exhibit
ed, to Josej.li P. Pearson, Jr., for
picture "In the Valley."
Jcnnis Scsman gold medal, for
be.it landscape, to Emil Carlson,
for picture "Entrance to St.
Thomas' Harbor."
Carol II. Beck gold medal, for
best portrait in oil, open to Ameri
can artiat3 only, to Douglas Volk,
for picture "Portrait ot Dr. Felix
Adler."
Mary Smith prize, for best
painting by woman artist, resident
of Philadelphia, to Nancy M. Fer
guson, for picture "In Province
town." Walter Lippincott prize, best
figure piece by American artist, to
Karl Anderson, for picture "Tho
Heirloom."
George D. Widener gold medal,
for best work in sculpture, to Ed
ward M. McCarton, for work "Tho
Spirit of the Woods."
Rigger and brighter and more brlllant
than ever, the annual exhibit of the Penn
sylvania Academy of the Fine Arts will
be opened to the public tomorrow after
noon. Today the press view, varnishing
day, reception and private view are
crowded In, between 10 a. m and "some
time In the evening." The prizes were
awarded today, handshaking gone through
and the Hanging Uomlttee breathed a sigh
and a prayer. Tomorrow the public will
decide whether It 13 a good show. The
exhibition has 110 ancestors and will llvo
until lato Sunday afternoon, March 36.
It Is an all-American show. There was
a rumor that foreigners had started can.
vases across the briny and submarined
deep, but none of them Is shown, except,
erhaps. In the salons of Neptune. No
names are given, and no. one tells with
what ship (he paintings went down. Dyt
the fact Is that they are not here. That
may bo the reason why the exhibit Is a
quiet, home-like affair. There Isn't a real
red dog- hanging around anywhere. Iast
year Mr, Glackens snapped his fingers In
Oio eyes of ordinary mortals and said a
dog could be and was red. This year
there is a brownish Airedale, but nothing
more. Nothing to gasp about No cubes,
no triangles, no vorticlstu. But there are
459 paintings, most of Uiem Interesting
Contlnufd on race Two, Column One
They Discuss the Relative Merits of War and Poker, on Page 7
OPERA DIRECTOR,
HELD FOR OTTAWA
FIRE, RELEASED
Bomb Explosion Caused
Destruction of Canadian
Parliament Buildings
FACTORY BURNED
OTTAWA, Feb. 5. Definite evi
dence that the fire apparatus in Par
liament House had been tampered with
before the flames broke out there
Thursday night was obtained by the
authorities today. The contents of the
fire extinguishers increased instead
of decreased the flames, and I1
Chief Graham believes that an
flammable liquid was put in them.
ire
in-
MONTREAL, Feb. 5. What is be
lieved to have been an attempt to
wreck the Victoria bridge here was
frustrated by Canadian gijards early
today. Several shots were fired by
members of the composite battalion
when a man was seen creeping over
the ice toward the bridge. A search
light on the city side of the river also
picked him out some diKtancc frqm the
piers. Other guards appeared, and
several more shola were fired. The
man escaped.
OTTAWA, Out . Fob. B.
Charles Strony. Helglan, nnd director
of tho Chicago Orand Opera Company.
who spent tho night In the Windsor Jail,
giving full vent to his temperament
throughout tho night, waH freed by Wind
Mr police today. A message from Colonel
J. S. Sherwood, chief of tho Dominion
police, declared that conclusive ovidenco
connecting tho famous musician with tho
destrurtlon of tho Cajiadlan Parliament
buildings was lacking and his rclcaso was
ordered shortly beforo noon.
Tho greatest round-un of aliens sinco
tho beginning of the war was ordered by
tho Canadian authorities today. The.
Dominion pollco have been ordered to
apprehend all foreigners who left Ottawa
Thursday night when tho $."i,000,00
Parliament buildings wero burned.
That tlmo bombs placed In different
parts of the Parliament Houbo exploded
during tho tiro that was raging In tho
building and helped destroy tho magnl.
Ilcent CJothlo structuro was tho assertion
made today by members ot Parliament
who fled for their lives whlln tho flames
wero bumtmg forth nbout them. Their
declarations were corroborated by Firo
Chief Graham, who tald that ho had heard
five distinct explosions, surh as would
have been caused by Infernal machines
while his men were fighting tho lire.
Tho thcorj that enemy agents have
opened a campaign of terrorism In Can
ada, of which the destruction o Parlia
ment house was the first art, has been
strengthened by tho burning of the plant
owned by Grant-Holden-Graham, Ltd.,
which was wrecked by lire last night.
Tho factory has been turning out equip
ment for Canadian soldiers, and Canadian
officials expressed the belief today that
the tiro which destroyed It was of Incen
diary origin. As a result of the two fires
In the capital every munition plant and
equipment factory In tho country is
doubly guarded today Instructions have
been sent to every point where army sup.
Continued en Tare Two, Column tilx
COL DI LANA INVAN0
ATTACCATO MARTEDF
San Vito Chietino, Non San Vi-
cino, Era Stato Bombardato
dalla Squadra Nemica
It comunlcato ufllclale pubbllcato lerl
sera a Koma, dice che git uustrlacl lianno
attaccato vlolenteraente ma seuza rlsul
tato, anzl subendo sravl perdite, lo posl
zionl ttuljane del Coludi Luna, a nord
dell'alta valle del Cordevole. Alcunl aero
plant austriaci hunno lasciuto cadere
borabo sullo, Laguna dl Orado, causaudo
pero' pochl dannl.
Notzle da. ltomadlcono che l'lntervento
della Rumania nelU guerru. a tlanco deglt
alleutl e' certn ed e' prosslmo, o che nove
deciml doll'esercito ruineno bono mobllltatl
e boncentratl In masslma parte verso la
frontlera ungherene e verto quella bulgara.
Un comunlcato uHlclale pubbllcato a
Vienna dice cha la squadra austrlaca che
attacco" la cost a Itallana deU'Adriatlcto
bombardo' la stazlone ferrovlaria dl
Ortona, a Mare e quella d San Vito
Chietino, II dlspacclo da Roma lasciava
invece supporra che San Vlcino era stato
attaccato. Cll austriaci dlcono dl aver
dlstrutto. II ponta sul torrents Ariello a
nord dl Ortona.
(Leegere in 4a,paglna le ultima a plu'
dettagllate notlzie sulla guerra. In Ital-lano.)
ELEVATOR 'DEAD'
IN BURNED HOTEL,
CORONER LEARNS
Atlantic City Officials
Probe Death of Six in
the Overbrook
WOMEN'S BODIES FOUND
Inquiry Begins Over Body
Mrs. Kelly, Wife of a
Philadelphia!!
of-
Victims of Fire Horror
in Atlantic City Hotel
The known dead in the Over
brook Hotel fire at Atlnntic City
yesterday arc:
Mrs. Charles Kelly, aged .15, of
New York," pnrtner in proprietor
ship of tho Maison tie Paris, on the
Boardwalk.
Thomas Edgarton Mott, aged G i,
father of P.ichaid H. Mott, proprie
tor of the Overbrook.
Mrs. Josephine Gnrscd, of Phila
delphia, widow, it is said, of John
P. Onrsed, former treasurer of the
old National Theatre.
Mrs. Thomas Edgarton Mott,
body found late last night.
Paul Craig Hendricks, aged 22,
graduate of Hnvcrford College last
year, who was publicity agent for
the Hotel Traymorc.
It is now believed that Edward
Phillipsen, of White Plains, N. Y.,
is the only remaining victim.
It is now accepted as a fact that
six persons lost their lives in the
fire. The property loss was about
$125,000.
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J.. Feb. 5.
The body of Edward Phillipsen, of 411
Palisade avenue, West Hnbnkcn, was
found at 1 :.10 o'clock this afternoon
in the northeast corner of the Over
brook Hotel fire ruins.
ATLANTIC CITY. Feb. 5 -With live
bodies l.lng In the Morgue and -UO work
men striving to find the remains of a
sixth 'victim in tho ruins of Iho Hotel
Overbrook, destrojed by fire heio carl
jcstcnl.iy morning. Coroner Itiqliard Dew
nnd a Jury this morning began tho formal
Inquiry Into the Hotel Overbrook tragedy.
One of the most startling developments
was that there was no elevator service
In fie hotel nt tho tlmo of tho fire, the
motor being out of order and In a repair
shop. The stuti-B at the tlmo wero ablaze
and oicapc tut off.
uu:vATon out of ortDKn.
The Coroner learned that there was no
elevator service in the hotel yesterday.
Tho clovator carriage was out of order
und guests of tho hotel had been using
tho stairs sinco Monday last.
This amazing statement. Important bc
causo it bos direct beating upon tho loss
of llfo now under Inquiry, was made by
Hownrd Cornell, manager of the Otis
Klevator Service Company, 11 Presby
terian avenue. Tho motor of tho Over
brook elevator Is in tho eomp.inj'a plant,
ho said.
"Wo first examined tho clovator on
January L'l, at the request of Richard
.Mott, proprietor of the Overbiook," Car
ncll said. "Tho motor had been short
circuited and was In had sbupc. Mott
decided to do nothing nt the time, but on
Monday last ho called us again to tho
hotel. Wo found tho motor In suth
bad shnpo that It was nccessarj to take
it out for repairs. It was brought to
our plant that day. Wo had to send to
New York for parts They arrived this
morning " -
Truman, an assistant, eoullrmcd Car
ncll's statement. A policeman had testi
fied that he round tho tlovator "stalled"
when ho tried to go up Into the blading
upper floors.
DKAD NUMBKR SIX.
It Is accepted that six lost their lives
and tho property loss was JlS.ono.
The Jury, of which Joseph Young, an
elcctiluil contractor. Is foreman, met at
Continued on rune Two, Column Three
T00THAKER SEESPERIL
IN FILIPINO FREEDOM
Commercial Museum Curator
Fears Outbreak of Disease
With Independence
The United States Government would
make a great mistake by granting the
Philippine Islands independence In tho
near future, this was strongly Intimated
today by Charles R. ToothaKer, curator of
the Commercial Museum, In the course of
an Illustrated lecture on the "New Philip
pines," at the museum Mr. ToothaKer
made no direct statement on the present
Philippine situation, but indirectly and by
reference to the opinions of others ho
made it plain that he was opposed to
Philippine independence under present
conditions.
In pointed references to the health and
sanity conditions on the islands, ho told
of the decrease of cholera ana oiner
contagious diseases following the work of
the American Health and Sanitation De
partment and of the sudden Increase In
cholera cases during the last few months
following the displacement of Americans
by natives In the health service.
"The American Health and Sanitary
Department," he said, "did a miracle for
the islands in the matter of lessening dis
ease. Beiore tho American occuption
there was a time when all sorts of dis
eases were most prevalent on the Islands.
Tho American Health Service overcame
this and for a number of years not a
single death resulted from cholera In the
Philippines.
"Within the last six months, however,
there have been many thousands of cases
of cholera. I shall not make any stato
ment on jny own responsibility as to the
causes for this sudden Increase In the
death rate, but there aro those who pro
fess to know and they say that the in
crease is coincident with the lessening of
the number of Americans In the health
service and the increase in the number
of naUve Filipinos."
. Extra Drareliil-room & Compartmfot Can
to Florid tU 8b04rd Florida Limited. 4 i
p in. Qukltwi. bait loq. HM Cbtotsut Su-Jii.
QUICK
BULGARIA CLOSES DANUBE TO TRAFFIC
PARIS, Feb. 0. Bulgaria has officially notified Rumania that
the town of Rustchuk is a war zone and that the Danube has been
closed, according to an official dispatch received from Bucharest
today. Rustchuk is on the Danube, almost opposite Oiurgevo, a Ru
manian railway town thiough which Russian troops bent on au Inva
sion of Bulgaria would piobably pass.
SLAVS REPULSED ON IRAK FRONT
CONSTANTINOPLE, Feu. 5. The Turkish War Office today
issued the following statement: "On the link fiout the enemy, at
tempting to ndvaute from Felahie, was lepulscd by a counter-attack
dcliveicd by our tioops, and foiccd to icticat within their former
POhUIqub.''
PANIC REPORTED ON BERLIN BOURSE
LONDON. Feb. C. -An Amsterdam dispatch to tho Kxchango Tc)sraph
Company says that a panic occurred on the Uerlln IJnugso today, owlns to
unconllniieil rumors .'iat iclallon'j between America und Germany will bo
liroUen off. Prices dropped heavily, tho dlsputch adds.
HITCH IN TEUTON-MONTENEGRIN PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
VIENNA, Fob. "!. A hitch 1ms developed In the peace negotiations between
Austria and Montenegro, it was Komt-offlclally admitted today.
Actual peace discussions cannot begin until Montenegrin representatives
can produce credentials, authorizing them to act. Prince Mirko and tho threo
ministers remaining In Montenegro are on good terms with tho Auatrlans, but
have no such credentials.
DIAZ REPORTED IN NEW REBEL MOVEMENT
WASHINGTON, Feb. (i. General Felix Diaz Is planning to start a now
revolution in Mexico and will opctatc from tho Guatemalan side, according to
Information which reached the Department of Justice today. Dluz is now In
New Orleans, whero ho recently established n junta.
HOPE GIVEN UP FOR MISSING ZEPPELIN
UEHIjIN, Feb. T. Zeppelin L-19, a naval airship, bus not returned from a
rcconnoitoring trip and hope for Its safety was abandoned today nl view of
reports that It was sighted by an English trawler, tho King Stephen o
Grimsby, drifting submerged in tho North Sea.
Though tho crew cllnginc; to the parts nbovo water asked help, tho press
dispatches say. tho British crow refused to glvo it, alleging that tho Germans
outnumbered thorn.
VAN DYKE CONFERS WITH LANSING ON MAIL SEIZURES
WASHINGTON, Feb. C Henry Van Dyke, Minister to Tho Hague, held
a long conference with Secretary of Stnto Lansing today over tho British Inter
ference with American mails. At its conclusion it was announced that Minister
Van Dyke would, cull at the State Department again next week. Mr. Van Dyko
was a passenger on the Rotterdam when that vessel was boarded by a British,
officer and her malls seized. Ho presented his card to tho British officer any
formally protested against the beizuro of tho American mails at tho tlmo.
BRITISH CAPTAINS WARNED TO WATCH FOR RAIDERS
NEW YORK, Feb. C. Tho White Star liner Baltic arrived hero today from
Liverpool ending a voyage during which tho officers had kept a sharp twatch
for Gorman commerce raiders.
Judging by tho fact that Captain Finch, commander of the Balticv was
warned to look out for raiders It Is believed that tho British Admiralty know
of the capture of the Appnm for somo tlmo beforo that veshel reached Norfolk.
ITALIAN TOWNS DAMAGED BY SHELLS, SAYS VIENNA
VIENNA, Feb. G. Details of tho Austro-Hiyigarlan naval attack on tho
Italian coast aro given In the following statement issued by tho Admiralty
today: "Our cruiser squadron damaged tho railway stations, warehouses,
factories and floating cranes at Ortona and San Vito Chlctino. It also de
stroyed the railway bridge across tho Ariello north of Ortona."
SALANDRA'S RESIGNATION PREDICTED BY BERLIN
BERLIN, Feb. C Berlin papers today predict tho resignation of Premier
Salandra, of Italy, owing to economic difficulties now existing in Italy and to
differences that havo nrlsen between Italy and England on account of sup
plies and coal.
RIOTERS IN LISBON ATTACK GUARDS AND STORES
PARIS, Feb. 5. A riot, nssumlng tho proportions of a i evolution, began
in Lisbon last night and Is continuing today. Crowds aio attacking the repub
lican guards in tho Portugucso capital and pillaging the stores.
CHINESE REBELS BEATEN AND BESIEGED
SHANGHAI, China, Feb. 5. The rebel army in southwestern China, has
been shut up in tho city of Sul-Fu, accordllng to official ndvlccs received hero
today. Tho town is being bombarded by Government forces. After winning
smalt successes tho rebels wero defeated by fresh Government forces that un
expectedly arrived, and retreated to Sul-Fu, leaving 500 dead and abandoning
two cannon. Tho pursuing Government troops were unabla to storm tho de
fenses of Sul-Fu, but threo other columns havo been bent toward that town
and aro converging for a general assault.
ALLIES COMMANDEER GREEK GOVERNMENT BUILDING
SALONICA, Feb. C. Tho Gicck Government's Agricultural School hero
was taken over by tho Anglo-French forces today and will be used as a supply
depot.
ROME EXPECTS GREAT GERMAN NAVAL OFFENSIVE
ROME, Feb. 6. Tho Agenzia Nazlonalo learns that Germany is making
colossal preparations for a naval offensive in the spring. She will have many
ships of a new type capable of withstanding torpedo attacks and armed with
guns of 42 anil perhaps 50 centimetres (17 and 20 inches). Convinced of tha
impossibility of obtaining a derisive victory on land, Germany, says tho news
agency, will attempt a grand coup on the sea, risking everything in order to
paralyze the approaching offensive of tho Allies.
PRUSSIAN WAR LOSSES TOTAL 2,337,096
LONDON, Feb. 5. A dispatch to tho Daily Mail from Copenhagen saya;
"Tho Prussian casualties list for January contains 36,500 names, bringing tha
total Prussian losses to 2,337,096, Tho January list includes the names ot 94
airmen killed, 11 wounded and 20 made prisoners. "The list also contains the
names of five generals killed and two wounded. The missing include the entire
14th Jager Ilegiment.
WRECKAGE INDICATES LOSS OF PHILADELPHIA SHIP
LONDON, Feb. 5. A dispatch to neuter's from Copenhagen states that
nearly the entire Esbjerg Ashing fleet had abandoned fishing for the lucrative
work of picking up barrels of oil drifting up from tho south. Thus far 3000
barrels of lubricating oils, each weighing 450 pounds and variously marked;
for Copenhagen, Malmoe, Stockholm and Gothenburg havo been recovered.
There seems to be no doubt that the barrels are irom some ship which has
been either mined or torpedoed. Portions of the wreckage are marked "Phila
delphia." BRITISH MISSION SENT TO BELGIAN KING -
LONDON, Feb. 5. An oQIclal communication made public hero sayjj tfi0"
Curzon, Lord Privy Seal, and General Sir Douglas Hulg, commander of tha
British forces on the Continent, ore to proceed on a special mission, to the KJpar
of the Belgians, Lord Curzon already has left England for that purpose.
NEWS
of This Edition
II
1
I
CI
a
II
