AN EXCURSION INTO BOHEMIA.!
THE "WEATHER FORECAST.
Cloudy, probably snow to-day; fair to-
What the term really means discussed after
a visit to the haunts of the New
York bohemians.
IN THE SUN TO-MORROW.
tin.
morrow.
HiebjVtemperature yesterday. 26; lowest. 16.
uestfjjrcniher man mid marine t-"t on p.iuc !..
4
VOL. LXXXI1I. NO. 158.
WAGE DEMANDS 1
FAIR JIMERIPE,
MINERS ASSERT
, . , , ,
rii,,l Workers Imsiu- lu-
in Statement of An-
tlnaciti' Operators. 1
SA. TIIKIIK AUK NO
IM(i STOKKS UK rOAl,
Point to Invasions of Non
unionists ami Increases
in hivinjr Costs.
Tr a is the M.iWincnt l.y the
intlirrfi.lr cn.il opcr.ltots printed In yes
tcrd.t) mornliig't iicxvspapcis tin1 I'tntcd
Jl -ie Worheis of America gave nut a
'steim'iit difrniling tliclr now iltinuml.
A' Hie time the operators nude It
phiti that tlicLi- statement li.nl been made
t-.mply to niiiuilnt the public Willi the
facts cf thi' situation titul was not n
formal rejection of the demands of the
m'tiers. Tin- tdatement of the mine
no Ki".- Is hp fnllowt :
"From .ill i.irt!i of tin- country, cspr
flai thf great cities mill distributing
irntre, ionic accounts of shortage of
nvhr.i' Ue coal mid of consequent
r,nt,il.;r maikct. 'It 4s only JiM tint
IN' in nrrs rliotiM also have a share In
i pro-peril) lli.it their arduous ami
1 .union- l.itior has mailt' possible.
"I'n rrascs In the wii pon of miners In
ir anthracite legions haxc liy no inca.i!"
v. i.i pace xv ltd the rates In other ln
iIj tr.t !. In tin- ten ears following the
miaul of ihe Anthracite Still "in-
mi-" on. wlille tlie rates of wages of th
nilir.iutf miners remained practically
-.' onai). tlit workers in otlwr Indus,
in- in. ImlltiK tin" miners In the bilu
n ..in- fields, ilrm.uicl' tl anil weie
.-.nlnl wage linrcases. anil the anthlii-
. nniii'i" ieif foroul to I .i their
j s'. of (lie lietiei w.ikes for ineli of
0 m . iiaft' through the added m-ls nf
miioillHrs that fiiimcd the nei c-e-
i.. of ihiir Hi inc.
ti lireiil More on llniiil.
I i t - Hull' ute that thete ate no
fr .1 .tores of anlliraelle. hut the min
er .lemaiids are not hiistd lip"" the
', nf the operators : they ale
' 'heil III tilt" lieefw.lt ll'K of the
in . i,. nihelli.
I Mn.i.'il ff il.leel IV, nanii.t"
i .-illt of c)l' I I iienelli.i. lh.lt
, . ..I in them tli.i. eien the ratec
i i . , eeil lil'iin often at'' nn-iie
I, iii- mis 1 . 1 1 1 1 llllller the pfeKIlt
.r a u ii.
I' i. i .iif is iippoi tune, anil fairnei-4
" 1u-i . il. niaiiil thai hotter wane
. H . . .'iii'ihei,Mie acrcemeiit shu !
. .1'i-ti! tie mna-rs of the anthracite
T m onfcienc.it of tlic tinner- and
ft or i r." tif the union Held' are alwn.t
f.ftl wat'hed h riiie."ent.itliH of
h' ni-itnloii opeiators. they are er
n' i .i.teie-tcd in tlie.-e I'onferen. ei". e"
! .' m if tliey I. hi fair to end In a
t ii dl.icrei-nient
I itiej hai'- eieiy reaMjii in he so
Ir e.l Laic- inhumcr of cml,
-;.. mi." i.r ihIIIm. f.i.Mrii-f. Ilehtlm; and
.I'urtatiiui Indurlrie- nnixt he h
I nf lllillileriMllitcd Mlppllc." of fuel
'in Itnliinflei tniit Inevitahlv 10111"
in a nit While the miner!) and oKr
- ' - Hie union illntrlctM me M'eni-."li'-ly
diiidcd on iplcntlons of
" Hid wnrkltc eondition", with the
1 .ii-iii. ir that the mi in r.- will la
i 'lielr tools at the e.Nplratioii of the
C -i ' Jierlod Ullle"." eel detail of a
hi i. oMiient Inih hcen determined
t. if noti-tini'in opt-rator.-i ale liuitl
' ' 'itilli.s the fe.u of tho-u who
n . 1 ilium ihelr coal Mippl.. to
r ndii-irle- active, and me
nlnii'lit ih.it naturally helniiL'
' on mine" ,iIso they have Ihim-
- , i iieii fiimiu-h to malic Ion time
- a demand, one that Ik often
i' . ' nv 'he panic ftricKen cun-
M r U .-1 n (Iflen 1 111 iiilcil.
' i i 'mis we often tlnd when w
t ' ' ...i,'h imp iiireemcntH that mir
n t- I,, in, hcen Invaded and at le.li-t
I ,'i !"-! for him; period.
i. lie fiiienill e do llol mean to
f n.it union inuiern hlnnild forcco
r 1'i.ir jut dem.inilc, nor do ue
ii". i,.,t tiiii sh'iuld not Hand read)
' i ' ' letort, hnivever to Htrlke If
r' ' ' f"- the cllfort fluent of Kllcll
ri ' v ! do mean to t.a, how-
' .1 .pfnon." of unrk while an
- i is Mill In the ranue nf pusul
1 ue in-t u. mote than we hae
t t niM.-hy
Wt U,nie Hut .inioui; the ,)pil.ilnlH
" ' ' w Hi Hie union tin le aro some
' ' ' . i illedll, lie hclli'Vf, 1'nriHl.KT
1 Mtiicht 1. 1 delay ."eltle
"' I "lie i,f hiiiixtlm; riul pri' es
1 - t. , .,f p,,ysip t-ttlki." or hil
' 'I r n ihc eiintr.ui making
w il" thev fully liili'ii.l tilt .
' ' ' 1 ,1,111111. lo an (iiultalile M't.
i . i.i'lieie that if Hi,' ,-wi.
' a -inpeiii-lon Immedlati l upon
i iii 'n of ,'uiitractit, unlesM all
1 ' "I hi en reai hi d In the r 1 1.- -.
i mailt' more diet int it would
' ', ' ' d. in i- I" Ihiiik earlier uKrce.
'Ml i', nut kii hehlnd faclH and the
i.i .,-(.
1'i.ti aftir each Hilspcnslnit hecatie
" llif. ii. t, hoIuIIoii of which In
i i iio-i-ihlf. mi h.ie found thai Mime
' l.unlne.ss ,uh Konu Iii other llelds, i
'1 i. to nun-unlnii llclilw ,
T a' it ih reeoKiilied a sood policy
"I' hari nf noii-unloii operator! to
' en .t in ,, i(y Hk'recmenlN In Ihn1
l'" 'llMrptB I
r' u I hi iii a i ii etill ,1."ifl.(l0ft coal '
oiiimdi. of our organization I
l ,i nerloilleal t.iivri.,im(iiiin i.ft. Inn
J'"" I'Mli lo tint union inlnern mid to
"ie nii.iatnrs with whom they deal."
1 nnfi rem en hetween the, operiltorH
M i-e cyenlatlviH of the United .Minn
""uern of America will hecln In Ihls
' J' ne IV hriiary 21 at Ihe Hotel Me-
'"' The present worMrijr aurrrnirnt
tn, minem mid the operalorx
' " on April I. hut the miners havn
"-""il nut lo Htrllio pending tieuotla.
'" ' ' n new iiuieeinent.
tllj krrtlre to Aihu.Ih Atlnnilr fujiit
I .' '-'."Vf 9iH A, M. Ttirnuifh RttntUM
i rirr I hilly. Cuminrlinrnt Tar Tun,
'"'J Sal. Ulnlnr Cr Hfrvlce. 111 U'way
Wilson Now io Use Lash
on Congress for Defence
President Believes the People Will Force Passage of
Preparedness Bills No Great Outburst
Yet, Pacifists Aver.
.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE MAY TOUR THE SOUTH SOON
V.IIINiTo.s-, IVh. ). I'lesldrtit WII
11 lettiriicd to VisIiIiikIoii to-day from
his "tuniplnif lour ilcterinlncd to com
I'lcli! the Jnh nf forclnR Id" tlrfcnce
prom amine tliToiiKh Conitrcss.
The Presidents asjerllotis that the
otiiilr.i had liecn iloeeHcd u lo tlic
altitude of the middle West on de
fence dues not mean that lie Is icrt.iln
of success at this stiiRe of tho llsht. It
was said oiithnrltattvrly to-day. If po"
slhle President Wilson may tel.ew Ids
apcil to the people of the oniinlr he
fine the end of the month, Invndlmr
other sections of the counliv where Hie
oppoltlou to him Is snld to he striiUK'st.
It Is tertaln thai the President will
remain In Washington long etioiiKh lo
canvass ihe effect of his campaign and
learn the nutcume of the l.uslt.uila con
Ivoiersy with iierman
I. culcm of all pnlithiil factions ngtre
that If a sudden crlls w ith tiermany
shoiitd he forced practically till nh"lac;e
will he remnieil from the path nf the
pn pariducss p'ogramine
The Prrsldtnt's friend" reailze that
slitllcletit tlnie has lint elaiwed since the
ileller.ini e of his messages to thecountry
for the till' Inlliii'iice nf his camiialgn
lo he innnlfested In Congress. There
w-i-t nn "in prise among Administration
mil I. lis to-da.i on the President's leluru
when they found that 'no Important
change are nollcoahlp et In the defence
lineup among the Iiemocrat." In Con
st ess
liter "t 't roopH.
Mae.i of Hi" anti-prepaieilnes" fan
cttinen, iticludlng snme from Ihr tir
litory wheie the Pitsidcnt his li"i
sptaking. Iii"i"t that the hale mil yet
1 cc en cd any ennsldcrahle liuinbir of letter-
or teltgiams, or seen any other
ei idem e nf any dee'ded I'htinge In the
sent. tin' nt op the part of thclt constitu
ents. Mn-I nf these C.ing I -snle fraiil.b
adimlltil the had expe led ami do t -pfct
"nine cnimmintcathins o tint kind
Pew of the Congro-snion who ate up
p.,ed to ihe President attempt to until
lui.e Ihe fine.' nf his appeal to the iniili
tr) oi In ileii.i thai tho strength of his
rconinit lul.illoit" to iViiigress has I n
Inert .i"-d liy the tilp. The mo-t cou--.piiuoil."
niponeius nf toe pi ogiainme,
howeier, icileialetl to-da.i their deter
mm. iimn In -tuml steadfast In their
njipositmn.
I'l-p-elally weie leaders of the oppo
sition eniilhlent thai tho Pie"ltlent will
If llliahle lo for, e rtiieplall. e of hit Coll
tin nt.it .mil plan Thestatementth.it
tlft I " niui tatl,' ioie t.oulil he secured
fin tin plan m the House made li one
of the aiitl-preiarcilne-i leaders the day
hefi.-e th Pie"idflil look the sttimti
was repeated lo-da with almo"l eijual
i ontlilence.
The opinion wa eires-ei that even
if the Preshleni should go into the South
to aruue hi.- rase, he will lint siicietd In
nirn oming the ptcjudiie agalli"t the
plan.
Mllllim lo lil tl III In.
The antl-prcparedness leaders art
willing lo wotk out some i-ompromlse
with the tlmliii"tratlon. howeier. h"e-1
on a plan for strengthening the National
C.tiaid. The say incisure" can tie
rormiilaud , winch will no! on! Insure
the recruiting of the National tStianl to
the strength of .'lOo.nOO men demanded
! Ihe President for Ihe tountr.i's Hist
line of defence, hut the mllltla can he
so trained and organized as to hrine It
not only nlthln the spirit hut the letter
of the Picsident's Idea nf a citizenry
trained In arm", which lie ilo"crile(l In
every nne of hi" Important stump
speeches Thete Is no likelihood now of
a i "tnpinmi-c h the President along
these lines.
The suggestions of poslhle mmpin-mi-f
on the tialliiual efeuce prngr.imtne
nrc legarded hy many as teal evidence'-
nf l Weakening hy till opposi
tion and tine interpreted hy the Admllils
tratloti as the most encouraging signs of
Hie effect nf the President's hp eches,
lleprt'setltallln llensley of Mls-nurl
said In-day there had hcen im deniainl
fniui h,h constituents for udoptiun of
the preparedness, programme In response
to the, Pie-ldent's addris'S lie ad
mltled that letters of Hiat character
would hn likely to appear later.
It Is still too carl v. llepresintallvi
say. to hale communications fto'it the
ti lddli! West and Northwest on the suh
ject. Uepresentatlve Mann, nii.io.ii' leader,
one of the champions of the piepa redness
call"', till! lint cnllllt much oil the effect
of the Plesldellt'H speeches to tllril the
tide nf popular opinion In favor of It
It was evident, hnivever. lie added, that
the puhllc wa.s awakening 1 the neces
.sii.i fur tho adoption of h fence nic.is.
lire.
lieprci-cntnllic Saunders of Vltglnia,
.mother pacifist, held that the President
hail not slated 111 Ills speeches that any
emetgencles had arisen cadmg for the
adoption of his preparedness policy.
"So far as Ihe Presidi tit's statement
that we should have the greatest navy
In Ihc wnr'd Is concerned," said Mr.
Saunders, "It will result III the abandon
ment of the $l,'ino,non,noft defence pro
Eiaiiim and the substitution of a J'-,00n,.
(mn.iiixi piugramme. Heretofore all the
expel"- hefoie our committee while men
I lolling Imgland as a possible antagonist
lime insisted there is no occasion to de
velop a nav mparahle to that of the
I "lilt, d Kingdom.
"Why should our nav.i, therefore, be
pl. ii id on a standing with that of Ureal
Itrllalu? Tint President's latest utter
unci's on this subject, In my Judgment,
represent a decided advance over any
thing yet attempted In icference to the
prepaieiltiess programme. "
A leller from .lud-on Harmon in sup.
port of ptepareilness was read in the
House lo-da) by Hepresentatlvo Allen
of Ohio, lo whom It was addressed.
"I hope." said Mr. Hatninn, "the oppo
sition to piepateilnesH Is subsiding. The
more I think of It the more Indignant I
bei'iimn that mi) body with pretensions, to
the rank of patriot should oppose the
Presldent'a policies: In this respect."
.SVvVv' GAIN FOR WILSON.
St. I.oiils .VeiiapnperK I'mlae l're.
ilen I for Plain TmIU.
St. 1.0IMR, Feb, 4, Tho comment nf
the morning newspapers on President
Wllsnn'g speeches. Iicro yesterday fn.
lows:
Hlofce-Drmorrnl: "Wo are glad too
thnt tho President has taken this nwln
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY o,
around the i ircle in the lentral Wet
anil has adopted the tone most likely to
appeal to this people. That he has ac
complished good for the cause ive have
no doubt. The chief opposition to It
here and throuuhmit the rutin! rv romps
i from within his own party, mid al
though he lias addrrsseil his appeal and
his argument to the whole public it Is
the Heinnernt.s lie has hoped to Inllu.'liie "
'laf-Dfemr.' "The President had a
message fop the country and has ih
lllclcil it. Wliaieic other success Is
imputed tn the trip, he tit least bus
shifted from himself icenui, lability fin
ally UMilcasaiit -uiLcuence.s Honing
from disregard of the safety llrst nie-
! nititlous he mi solemnl) enjoins."
J The .Nfnr: "That President Wilson ha"
won oicr the forces of opposition to tia
tlona' preparation for deferce aiming the
people cannot be questioned. If li,. ha
not In tills way also won against the
forces of opju-ltloii In Congress, then
the mice nf the people dot pot title in
Washington. Hut If it tlocw not now. It
will. Whatever party Is reivonslhlu for
a continuation of national weakness, if
It should continue, will be repudiated by
the people nrM Nnn tuber."
The UriHibllr;' "In his r)e the mere
mechanics of the thing the forms of
orgaiilatlon, Hie condltloins of training- -Meld
In Importance Tie essential tiling
Is the idea American lighting t-lllclency
fiom the leiy first has depended on the
correlation of spiritual forces. It has
icstiltc! from the transformation of a
peculiar and passionate ilcvjtlnu lo a
certain lili-.il of llbrrly and a lertaln
intense prcts-i iip.itlon with the i-reatue
wnil.s of veacc Into the foues that ttaln
arinhs "Jul win baitlci, Woodrnw Wil
son Is i liitlung the mixt potent idea In
Atnct!, mi bii-iory in the new garment
nf a new dai "
OHIO JOLT FOR WILSON.
! tin, lie I'nreetl lo lleelnre Him
self H n ( niiitlilnlr,
on Mius. iun. I'ch I ,iion hi
hrtielar) of State llllilelnainlt in.d.ii
ma) riMilt in I'lesldeiit Wlbnti being
lor. til io il- Lire lilinelf as to hi" ramli.
! ilar) for ii rlr.'tlnn.
Hlldf .".milt mlcil that iiiiIcn. ..mill-
tl.tles tor ilehvate lo ihr national I iemo-
'all mention name a III ft and -ecotel
cholci for President and tltinv-s the per
son" so ii.ini", I Hie with him wiitlt-n n
ii-ptaiices of mi. Ii rmnllilac) the name"
of deleg.itrs will Is- lianrd fiom the
prlmaiy ballot In August. Candidate
lor President have until Kehnnr) I.". In
III" ,1,',-epiani e-
lienio.-iafr leiuhrs had in-i I hide
hl.uiilt woit'-l mi roin-tlue the law Hiat
J President Wll.-oti would br relieml of
the eiiih.ii rassmi nt of making mi open
annoim, emi n- of bin candidal ,.
iiiliio I eiiHvr.H" anparetitl) are a unit in
favor of Mi Wilson lor leelectlon his
, failure to tile an accept, mcr would rtftilt
either iii an tlfori to provide "dummy"
j candidates lor Piesldent or il-r the
'selection of national delegate at the
! Sl.ltP .-Oil. ...It ir,., tl.t.u I .I..n .V...
prlniaii I., u
HUBER'S CASINO BURNS.
I'Hsllior , I, Alsti llrstroietl It.',
I'rotllnu lliirs,." "mril,
Hulier s Casino, at Jerome avenue ami
l'i:M street. Mci-nmb'" lam fark. The
Hroiiv. burned to Hie ground about IS
o'clock this morning.
The clubhouse of the Pastime Atllletir
Club, opposite the Pastime track and
the Com-nurse Stablrs, l'i which were
thiriy-lhe thornughbird trotting imrses,
were also hut lied Tue horses weie
taken out hy Police ,-crgcant 1',-tnler.
The total loss was isllinated at tii.inin.
SCOTTI IN PNEUMONIA PERIL.
.Metropolitan liar) lone Hul line.!
lor I'rsrs rrlon "oiiiill'nlon.
Antonio Seoul, the Metropolitan's
chief barytone. Is threatened with pneu
monia. He Is confined to hit. apart
ments at the Hotel Knickerbocker under
the .ure of Hr. Ilnlhrnoh CurtK It was
said last night that Mr. Smttl was
serlnusly 111 and that ever) effoi I was
Wing nude to prevent complications.
I'm- several weeks Hie dinger has Ix-en
absent from operas in which 'he was
".'heduled to appe.n and his place has
bieii taken by !luseppe le I.iica His
present Illness fnllims an attack of the
grip, which hi' contracted while the
epidemic was at Us height not long ago
in all part." of the city.
GEORGE M. REYNOLDS. DYING.
Chicago Rnnkrr strlcLen Willi
lirlp In l.oa tliKcles.
l,os A.NiiKI.KH, I'eb. 4. -George M,
l!e nobis, president of the Continental.
Cnmnien-lal and National Hank, Chi
cago, Is d)lng at his apartments In the
Hotel Alexandria, according to an an
nouncement made to-ulght hy the at
tending physician
So serious Is Mr IteyunhlH's muditlnn
that Mrs Keynnlds started from Chi
cago at x o'rlock to. night on a special
train.
Mr. Iteynolds, who came tu I, oh An
geles several days ago for a piolonged
sta), wa stricken last night with grip
This was followed hy mi attack of bron
chitis. Later he suffered greatly with
asthma ami Is not cM-ected to survlvo
the night.
BRANDEIS CASE UP TO-DAY.
Senate Com mil tee to ( iinaldrr Pub
lic Hearing".
Wasminuton-. Keh. 4. Tlie Senate
suh-comtnlttee on Judicial will meet lo.
morrow at 11 o'clock to consider the
nominalloii of Isiuls H Hrandels fur As
soi'tate Justice nf the Supreme Court of
the United Slates. Due question to be
decided Ih whether the hearings shall
he open to the public. Many eomniunl
rations have come n the committee,
scarcely half of which have yet been
read,
It wa.s learned to day that several
lawyers in New York lime evinced a
wllllngnesK to appear before the commit
ter and give evidence on the case f sub
pirnaed, hut they appear unwilling to
volunteer testimony. The names were
not lven out. Senator IiOdKe received
the Information.
APPAM CAPTOR ONE
OF 9 NEW RAIDERS
Othoi'sfo Ti'.v lo Slip llril-j Alllioiili Hopclcsslx Out
isli Fleet, Sn.v (lor- ! riiiiirril liritisli Foil" li t 1
iniins. for Three Honrs.
:UI0 "tUPTIVKS" IIKHK.CAN'.MX TKM.S STOIIY
.Mr. I'. C. Fuller Tells Stnrt
1 in - Story of Meniieo to .
Knulixli Ship.
Tin re hundred ntnl eighty former
prisoners on tint t'upltmd Hrltlsh liner
Appain m rived In New Ymk front
Norfolk last night on tin- Old Domin
ion steamship JelTei'son. Karllcr in
the day the r.ngllsli officials, including
Sir laliiard .Mcrcwi'ther. eatim In by
train. Many will sail for llngland
Monday on the Noonlatn.
Two mysterious commerce mid"!-",
olio of whlrh sanli seven tiiert'liant
mett and ruptured the Appam, l .in the
Hrltlsh blockiiil' ami aro now ul large
nil the high seas. Is the teport .Mrs.
Francis C I'tillcr says (Jertiimi sen
men told her on the ,i) In the Amer
ican port.
Nine new inideis in all lib)' been
built and the others tiro awaiting u
chanr' to slip past tho llngllsli lift
and statt mi n career or ilcpii-datluiis
on the Atlantic, she adds.
lift, ills of a plot to seize Lieut. I'.org
and recapture the Appam was brought
hi a number of the ftrrd vo.iagers
oiily Hie thteat nf the rnmtnnmlcr to
sink the lllii r deterred them.
Despite (ireat Itntain's delilalid fnr
the teb use of the liner tin' State De
partment is Im lined to permit I. lent,
llerg to ii'taln possession while the
fclnp is Int riii'd a" . prir nf war
At Newport Ni ws the li t man inm
tnamler iind forty-three un-n irmaln
on htfitd and the l.leuteiiaiil declares
he mil ii"! Klv' "l l'"' "fairly tap
tiirisl'' steamship
CAI'TIVKS SAW P0SiA
OX I'LATKS O-' VKSSKL
Merr llnml of i:-l'rliiler ol
ir llau-r li iill.
Two Cfrm.iii romnitiie raiders the
iiiystenoiis cuiiierl'-il freighter which
sank seicii Hrltlsh merchantmen and
lapturnl the big llm-r Appam and
another of similar t)p broke thinugh
Ihr ritlllsii blocl.Htle in the North Sea
ami i-RiMsl to hurr Hniish trade on
ih" Mlatitn
This Mt.il in. lit was mad" l'i Mis
Francis C I'ulbi. wife of tlie Com
nilsnotier.ileticr.il "f Ashanti, who. with
her husband, was among tne Ilsn per
sons leleased from the Appam at Nor
folk and biought to tins ell) l-M night
hi the i dd I 'oin'.tiiiin stramshlp Jrfter
soii Mrs. I'tillcr had the slnr) from
i term i n seamen who were iiieinhers of
the prize new under I. lent. Hans llcig,
who hrough'l the Appam to Norfolk
"They told me,' said Mrs Fuller,
"that nine commerce desiio.it ii. hale
been eipiippt'd a! Knl In the i in man
naval authorities mid that two or these
have slipped thtougn tile I'litish I'ncs
and are now se.urli tig the sleimshlp
lanes tor Hrltlsh prizes. They l.o.itiil
thai the others would soon he able to
tlml a wa) to the Atlanta', b, cause the
ibrinans knew of tricks to fool the
lilockaders "
I.eM II h Me on Neil leni't",
Mrs. Fuller said that sevei.il liernnn
eeatni'ti of Ihe Appain prize crew gale
Identically the same Information to ling.
llh sailor-- with whom thev Ihtiuii,
frlcndl), adding that the raider which,
a" Is known, destroieil seven ships ami
ctptuied one lett her tieniiau base on
New Year's Day
Seieral id the englishmen ami Hug
Ilsh wnuit'll who arrived heie last night
on the Jefriison told lathei staitllug
storte" "f th" tense ilav-s which fnllowed
the raptuie of Ihc Appam nn .lanuai)
l'i. .M ', Watson, nn his way frnm
Sierra la one lo London and who vol
unteered to art as third ofTner or the
Appam berau-c of a shortage of r.vul.ir
oirieels, ilei'lari'd Hiat n plot ly leiap
tuie the ship actually was foimeil ami
that Ihe details of Ihe plan to overpower
the (ierinaii prize crew were well worked
nut
"We ini'i secretly, under Ihe nnses nf
the i lit m. in guards, mid itggnl up n
scheme to throttle the thlrly-llie liennaii
guards" said Watson, "but for a reason
which I am not m hbeity tn give the
plot iiiiildn i he carried mil."
"Hn )ou nieali thai there was a leak'.'''
be was asked,
"I lllllsl not s.l).' lie lepluil "Hut I
am prepailng a uport wlnrh I shall
hand to Ihe Hril.h Consul- leneral
heie"
I'lol lo elltt ClllllorH.
Alfred Oshotne of I '! mom Ii. a liold
Co.isl uiimr. who bail made a stake mid
was on his wa) m Ciighinil In enjoy it
coiiobornlcd Mr. Watson.
"We were all ready in Jump the beg.
gars," said lisborue, "and I believe we
enulil have suci led In iccniupicMiig tin
ship, hut Ihe chance that the lieimans
would bale time enough to tinnli ,.tf
the bombs with which they liml mined
Ihn Appam was the thing Unit par.ily.eil
us, After a gnnd deal nf lull, ne' de
cided lo lake our mriliciiie. feailng
olherwisc that Ifeig would I, low Hie
ship tn pieces and kill Ihe wntneu anil
children, with the lest nf us Thai's
Ihe fact nf the business."
Them was nn doubt al -all, iiccoiding
to Mrs. Fuller and other women who
talked to Lieut, llerg, that he would
hale blown up the Appam If a mutiii)
too big for his small crew to handle had
developed or If a Hlltlsh ciulser had
hoc In sight.
"He told me so llatl)." assirled Mrs
Fuller. "I said lo linn one day, pat Hi
In Jest, 'Captain, what would )ou do If
one of his Majesl)'s ci niseis slgliled us-'
"'Madam,' hn leplied, ' ten von
frankly thai If one r .vniir waishlps
sights us I would 111 r-t want lis rniil
miinder (hat we have alsiani filli! IJng.
llshmen and Knglisliwniueii ami lh.it ue
iles.lt I'd to pioceeil without tnnlcslatlnn
If lie paid no heed ami Insisted on sur
render I would blow up the ship I shall
never surrciidci this ptlze''
"And 1 believe he meant llell linn)
rf It," added Mrs, Fuller. "Many of us
had been literally praying for a glimpse
ot a llrltlsh warship. Hut after that we
Cnullnunt on Thlvil I'nge.
191G.
t'opyriyht, l!tfi, bp the Hun
WOODFIELD'S GUN
HELD U BOAT OFF
Snv Tlml He Hoped lo Itenoli
Citmilliir. tint llnd to
Aliiiniloii Ship.
lierttit t tilth tlninltr't tn Tin. M s
LiiMniN. Feb I. Opt. Hughes nf the
Hrltlsh stentnt r Wnmltleld, which mads
a game Ihiie hours tight against a Her
man submarine in the Mediterranean
Sea before II llnalli sui lendeie I with
eight killed ami fourteen wuiinileil, wa"
seen b) the cot i cspmidcnt of Till; Si.'.v
al PI)mouth in.ilav and told the stnry
of his tight.
The stitugle wa not a band to band
one on the necks of the steamer, as tlrst
teported liy some of the survivors of the
iew. hut a running light In which the
single gun of the Woodtleld was hope,
bsdi outranged, tarried "tl while the
Wiiniltlrlil wa" making a desperale at
It'i.ipt to ti'.n h (ilhtaltnr
'I'he S ooiltletd was lo.vaging from
Avenmiiuth to Hie Levant 1111111-1' sealed
orders. She cuili-il an at mi service
enrps litnes her crew mid a ilnveiii
mem ,aigo The steamer was sunk
furl) mil-" ra-l of lilbrattar
soliniii rl ne I'lnil" lliiogr.
' I 111 1 T 111 the morning.' said the
taptmii. who was himself wounded In
the tight, "a Herman submarine up.
pt.ired. poweifiill) armed and urn show
ing ati) nuiiil't'i Sin- upeiied Hie. Her
tlri.1 shot fell short. I lei lecotnl iieiit
ovi' us Then he found the range, .111.1
a stliit'sslnli nf shell" struck Us 1 1111
gun wa- manned, but -1 was entire!)
nutiaiigeil. and the st1tM11.1t 'lie kept char,
although If "he had tsillle nearer lle
roubl Into, sunk her
"Tins utif'iual tight , onllnueil for
three hour", the Mihiiiailne all the time
keeping out of nilige. while we tried
lo nake tiiln ill, if We found It Im
possible tu maintain full t-v"'l. ns Hit
Arab llremen ipilt the "inki-hoM ami
Hs-heil to the dei l,s. adding to the
dull ultli-t
"Aftt r line,, hour I realle I that
Icst.ipe was hoi.ei,s Alieadv eight were
I killed and folllteeti uoutlilisl. s.-len of
the tleail and eight of Hie Injuied being
solillt-IS I 'lire In Die stiucgle too the
Hntish itelgti had I n shot away.
1 It wa nil 1 k'i) lejil.o-ttl b) tlie sailors.
I "When I found that the s.heN had
I made a number of bad hobs. In the
ship ami she was Kinking fast I ordfied
I the boats to be lowered. All the sur-
vlvois tot aiiai In four boats, with tl.e
X epl. in of two gut .nei mi self.
We left fie Wmsltblil t.,st on n "mall
1 raft I'tnl.iig that In,- wouhl not "up.
poit us ami gunner heing hadl)
llotllilhil. I Jumped olT Hi swim to olle
"t' the lirehoulK II w. s Illeti for the
tlrst time thai ! fill ui) wounds
Plrales I 11 pl 11 r,. siiri Ivors.
'i int.- we got iwa.i Hi,. Hiihmarine
; tap. ,11 liosed i" Hie Wood Meld and
j toipeihied and ?a khet. She w etit dow 11
iihntit I" m Hie nmrtiing. I'ourtten
1 liours Ian r the captain's and third mate's
boats reai'ht'd Peiion 1 the Island of
t Peiion il,. la Comera 1 ntT 1 lie Murooran
1 roast Another boat re.iii.nl Alhuc-e.
jtnas ami II thi r. rniiiai img nine so.
tilers ami thrie sallnrt. was captured b)
I Moor.sli pilales.
"Th,- sailors ape, iv a Freiirh fish-
i-ig boit and reached 1 Iran The sen
'n.is Heie were much Hirprls.il to hear
them sa) 'Pailez-mus ' ninth wa- t...
Old) French they knew. The snldlelH
iiet-e raiisnmei! I.iltr .,l .1 ilw.ii.,..i .)..!
lai" tacli. iltli.-rs of Hie 1 iru were in
lei ed at M ilig.i ami e, .iped bv tlow
mg una) In the Kteamer Hantland "
Pi 1 on de la 1 iouiera is 1 11O miles south
east of 1i.bralt.1r. Alhiicemas. another
island otf the Motoic.m coast, is Ihlrt)
milis further lo the 1,0.1, and Or.in,
which ntvt lo Algiers l Hie principal
seaport of Algella. is "nil miles to the
east
i' HO AT HAD J FLACS.
Heiil to ft) lllllier l.t'rinnn or
lilslrlnii Colors, HrllUli iiy.
1iMil X. I'eb I - A llntlsll ,,ft,. ill
slat"ii"tit was issued to-day tilling of
Hi" 11 f two Hag", the licim.in and
Austr'aii, b) 11 submarine which at
taiki-d the llrltlsh Me. unship Comuio
doie 111 the Meillteiiaiican The re"irt
diaws the nni'ln-lii'i imm the im-lileut
that Hie silbmarilie had the two dig.
le.nl) to liy either ncrntdlng to the na
tioiialili 'r the ship atl.n ked
Tlie statement sa) s
The 'iia-ter of the Harrison ,m,.
sle.imship I'ttmmodote. sunk by an
I'licni) suhmatiue in the Mediterranean
on I ie, cuils'r Interi leweil hy naval
authorities, slates :
"The ship was Died on without am
is'lois bring shown hi the sub
m.iiinc. ami otter the snip was ab.it.
ihuieil the suhmiit'iui' appioarhed tin
' boats with two Hags lolled up al the
; ll.ig-l.iir ami ititUlied if the ship
was lltilish Heing misweieil in the
1 aflliinatne. they iimolled olio of the
I flags, which was the Herman eiis.gn
GEN. HAIG TO SEE KING ALBERT
He and Carl iir1111 tenl li II r 1 1 -11
1 11 011 Mission lo llelglini It n lee,
irii,lf i'tlhlr ltptltr!i tu Till Sis
LoMiox. Feb 4 The olllcial pi ess
hill", 111 ami'Miuccd to-uighl that Karl
Curzoti ami Hen Sir Douglas Dalg have
been deputed by the 1 iiiiernmeiit to pin.
cred on a special mission to tlie King of
the Helglans.
I.niil Ciftzmi nlread) has left Ktiglaml
on the mission.
It wa" 1 - . 1 1 ttil a few da.is ago Unit
lict'liini!) had ollcrcd lepatnle peace lo
llelglllin, with the resloialliui nf that
ioUllll')'s llllll'pclldlllt SOVelelglil), uo
vliliil Ihc Helglan l lux .111 un-n t would
ohseric neulrallly, tlius laugltig llelglmn
011 the side of ileiniany should the Al
lies seek lo Invade the latter thinugh
Hclgliim
The suggesliiiu is made that the nils-
1 smn of the Isud 1'iivv Seal and tlm
1 llrlllsh cf.niniandcr on the western front
ma) have In do with the lircscnlatinn
I lo King Albert of tlie lltilish lews nn
Ihe repot tid proposal.
Western North Carolina " In- l.anil nf the
lky " llisii lieil In through rleeplng curs New
Yelk to Ashevllle lltt SOUTIIKUN ItAHi
W'AY. Iiellf htful elhiisye. Illsgunt luiieln.
, 1 iniu-e, .in r 1 1 ill .re ,i(ir,
Priittinjj anit 'uhtlihtny AttMciot ion.
Zeppelin L-19 Missing,
German Admiralty Admits
Berlin Has No Word of Raider Reported Lost in the
North Sea Captain of Ship That Sighted Aircraft
Says He Feared to Take Crew Aboard.
MEN BEGGED FOR MERCY AS AIRSHIP SANK
lei,i (,i(,c r ,,.(, , foTiig Six
Lomsin, Feb. 4. An Amsterdam def
patch giving the text of an official state
ment Issued b) the licrmaii Admiralty
to-night to tae . rfe, t that tlm Zeppelin
j 111 m L-l!i f.iHid to icttira fiom a
iiv umnilimg Might tends to ciinHrtn )es
:tril.i)'s report that the Xeppetm which
'11 Hrltlsh trawler had seen In a sinking
(ondlllou In tlie Ninth Sea on Tuesday 1
I w ih lost tiMtthrr Willi Its o'Vupiiii: -. ,
The lleilln slali'ineul was as follows
Tile Minister of Marine atiliouin i s I
that tlie altshlp l.-K' has nut teturneil ;
from .1 is 0111 nliring lllght lntulrl-'K
hale been made, but without lesllll
The I.-!!) ie suppost d to he the same'
'allship win, Il sank tlie rollier Franz
I Fisher ami was llrttl at b) the Dutch
I isi.ist glial, I on tlie Island of Amelaml
on WcdtirMla) I, s'.iatches fixim Loll-
don sav that liilttah watcr.ift made a
1 1I101 niigli M'.ir, Ii for tin- 'tppelin In the
Itglou wheie tt was mi'Ii last, hut could
tlml 110 trace o' It
Nothing furlhi r has been le irneil about
the l.-Hi. It is assumed that the airship
wa sunk m a gale wlnrh talsed n
j big sea .iisterday and which. It I" In
1 heved, would have made It Impossible
to ton the '.eppillti Into h.irliiir, cun If
Hit. i.le 111 ui" had found It
I apt. .Martin's "lor,
.'apt Martin or the trawler King Ste
phi 11. a no, 11 ci"i ding to bis own report
tstrday, nfllit'tl to lesrue the '.ep-
' pelln a new for fear tin) would later
overpower bun and Ins 11111, told the fol
low mg stor) to-d.i) .
"We left tlrttush) on Jaiiuar) 'j:i fot
a ten da)s tl-hlng cruise. I had on board
1.1 new of nine men. M) t.awler carrltsl
I no suns or otlni weapons. At dawn
' on IVbrnar) : w had eicnly or eight)
boxes of fish and our trawls thin 11.
"Ii was a 1,,-auliful morning. We were
Bailing at Hie late of llftien mlb an
hour There was 110 wind and the sa
was table miiooHi. Suddenly we saw
what looked like a white .'loud ana)
olf We knew It could tint be a cloud
111 sin-h wrath r.
"We hauled up our sear and put on
full st am I" te whether the thing
m.ght l wreckact worth towing Into
pott s lie got lie.ini lie saw II was
a Zeppelin I could rot mistake bet. 1
had seen too man) Zeppelin" tu have any
doubt I ml) about 120 feet of the air
ship's forepart was showing, ilsiiig about
foil)' fi ft "Ut of the watei .
oiler Iteiiaril ror Hrsciir,
nil ste ahuut Ilfteen men on
ton of Hie hamper Some of their hands
and kmc" weie slithering about Any- '
how. thete weie othirs in Ihe 11: g. with I
their bead" sticking tlnough the mm.
piitloiiwa) and aims clinging tn the side
of it They lookt l as If thev had come f
from the north pol" Tin) wore fin
J.n keis .111 I ap"
I -houltd. 'What Is the matter '
"Send us a boat, and I'll give you 1
live pounds." came the answtr from one
of tlie men on the Zeppelin. Saying o,
lie tool, otf hi" coal .Hal showed Ills brass
button"
'I knew al nine he w is a ii.iv.il nf
lint. Hit- captain of the .ill whip Del
looked like our own naval nlllcris, was
a loiingisli fellow, perhaps 311 icars old,
wit! .1 1liiiiiiih ami weathered fare and
a u 1 1 of oiib-rlii.- mm about
"W in 11 one or two nf his . rrw who
1 spike Kuglisli tried to mitt 111 be shut ,
them up prtity smut He was a geii-(
lb man aid behaved as our He was
polite at"! spoke good Knull.tii I isiuld
hear hammel illg m tile Zeppelin H)
I ami Ih other heads cropped up until
there nei-" ibout thlrt altogtlhn
'I i'i,,u-lit a hit mid Iheii said:
Will, if their wasn't so 111. mv of
.mil I would lake ou off, but there's too
man)
Hermans rune for I, lies,
"I'lie nillier straightened himself and
1 said: 'There I- nothing in that'
, "1 thought again and said
"'llilt supposing we lake )nii and ) 011
' sling tl" oieilioaid and 11.11ig.1te the
tiawlei- t" Herman)! TI1.1t would be
miotlnr divination for )ou. but it won't
be much l"r us !'
"He said I pledge )0U my won!
thai we will no' do all thing of tlm
klnil.'
'He took a living oath that I' would
I imt Inlerfeie with us and that I could
hue plenty of money If I saved them.
.Well. I look another thought 'They ate
I thlrt),' I said to ui.ii-elf, -and ue ,m
, nine . Ihe) are annul mid we me mil
j We haven't got as much as a plsiol on
, Imard.'
1 "I Mould not lake tne risk. If theie
1 had be, 11 aliothei ship sl.incl ng In I
jiould liaie taken .1 ih.ince, hut then.
I was nothing in sight Itesldes iv
ineiilh'ieil what the Hermans havn done
iind what they might do again. I
nnilil see thjie Iron 1 rrssi s painted nn
I the 'Ppt lm. twn nn 0111 side mid one
I underneath lis wooden nose, which was
till t lip
Wniildn'1 Trust lieroiniis.
"I Hlpposrd that these I'russr.s llrie
given them for some dating deeds and
I 1 did not want iino ami in) new to be
11.11 1 of Ihr fourth.
"So I sli allien
pellii about t'.iin
said . 'W e ate
away irotn me wp.
o'clock. Tlie captain
s, nklng now. Look
hel e '
"I said as the last word. 'You w, II
come heie ami takn charge of me!'
"'No,' he said, and pledged Ills word
again. We diew awn). Some of Hie
Herman ''lew at lli "t shouted 'Mercv !
Men)' Sav' us!' And then thei shook
their' lists a! 11s.
"I saw there mas 110 use I would I
have done It cxeepl for the icason I '
hale told )ou. I wciil away 10 llnd a
giinboal or a p.iliol lessel that was bet
ter pinihleil th. Hi we were for looking
utter an rnomi crew.
"In peace time, of course, would
bale hail all the (lei mans aboard two
licks"
A member of the King Stephen's crew,
confirming Cap!, Martln'M story, added
the following:
"We cruised tound and round the
wrek for a while The skipper asked'
Us what we thought licst. We nil Mild, 1
Let's get ana), ir they come aboard
they'll slaughter us' So e went, and'
then 11 wind got up."
HMD DAMAGE HEAVY.
I.eriniios n t nil-t Ircrnfl limm
Mil llimllsli OnlnnUi-rs.
Ibau.i.W m.i Luuiloii, I'Vb. 4. A semi-.
0III11.1I statement Issued hi- Die Herlin '
nveiseas News Agency tlils afternoon
gal" whit purports to ho a more or less
tletaiieii an mint or the damage cuu"ed
In tlie Zeppelin sipi niton which last
Monila) night t.ililnl fix loiintle.s of
Ktiglaml It is a.ssuted that Important
inlfctnr) damage was caused, reports
conrernliig which, th" ageir.-y adds, me
concealed In Ihe Hrltlsh authorities
Tin- rtpnrt is ba.sed upon Information
which leached Herlln through Amster
dam, ami says that the raid caused a
panic among the people ot Manchester,
Nottingham and Sheflleld, adding that
the population of these. Important Indus
tnal re titles li.nl lnnord tlie otlhlal
warnings In th.; belief that the raiders
ouhl nut penetrate that far.
The statement says. In part
"An inretellary bomb droppeil Into an
ammunition factory In Nottingham cro
aled 1 panic mid caused tlie wotk to
In- "topped. Two shed" used for mill,
tan purpo-e." were burned down In
Sloth, -I.I
"The anti-airiiaft batteries on the
Dumber f,iu"ed extensile damage mid
man) piiHons uere Injured, shell drop-
n nn on groups ni worKingnien who were
wal, hlng Hie Zeppelins.
"The woi'i il.iin.ige was done on the
Dumber t all places where bomlis 1
were ilroppeil the public was not ad- '
tuitiid. mid ati tepotts regirding the
damage done weie forbidden circula-1
Hon '
DENY GERMAN RE POUT.
llrlllsh i,i r Haider Old l.lnlr
lliiionur lo Muiiltlnn Work..
lr ll f tlltlr tir.)m I. lo Tl ' Si
IaiMh,s, Pel, t - , ,rpv to the Her
man Admiral!) - siateoieiit that last
Miiiid.n's mi raid caused damage among
the liiilii-ttl.il and commercial establish,
nieiits the War 'Mllce t night Issued
the following statement.
Serious damage wan done to thiee
breweries, Ilfree iiillway sheds, one en
gine shed, one tulte factory, one lamp
factoi y and one blacksmith shop.
Minor damage, such as shattering nf
"" au'i Ki'is., I'scurreii in a mum
11011 lariory m iron works nt mi
placis, In a tine factor) . a harne:
f.lcIOrV. a lllllw'.'tv a i.r.ilt, ul.n.l
two
rolilei) and sonic pumping stations'
No dorks, granaries, munition fac
tories or industrial establishments of
any son tuner man those mentioned
weie damaged Fifteen worklnginen's
houses were ib'iunllshtil, a large num
ber of sunall shops and dwelling hnu-es
wi re Injured, some serloulv ami main
slighH).
Tin- latest casually returns ure'
Ixllh-d Ji men, So women,
dreii
chil-
Injuied 4 mei ,: women and 7
h'hlrrti
ll I" not ii.ipo-ed 111 the future to
issue ,1111 detail" of this cliaiac"ei.
a" it,-i 1,01 ailils.ihle to Inform the
1 tiemi of the results of air att.uks
tm Hie occasion of Hi!" raid, when
Hie largest number of airships so far
emploied pa Hi .paled In th,. attack,
this si.it, 111. 'lit is given In otiler to
"how how unfounded Is the claim that
the economic life of (ireat Hrllaln or
lis uullt.ir) preparations can appit
tiably br affected hi- the proiii.scuoii"
(hopping of bombs from nlr-Ulps
wandering over the eounlix In the
1l.1t k.
In a total of twei.ti -nine raid", great
and small, l.tn men. of whom seven
teen were soldier", ami ninety women
and forty-three ihlhlreti, have l,,,..,
killed, but when It s lemembered that
with the Ltisitatii.i alone l.liix persons
weie lirowi.ci. I he Zenne Ins
as
mean" of mtirilerlng Innooeiit Ivlllan.s
nin-t be comparatliclv dls.ipjKilnting
to tin ,r promoter"
l.onl Charles H. tt-sfoi il, foinier Fust
1onl of Hie Adimralt) , h is come nut In
f.nor nf three Hrltlsh air laid" nn Her
man fm I'tiT) Herman raid here.
Vis Hunt lltyce in a speech at lied
ford tool iy ilepreiMteil rt prisals
"Thcrt' I" no reason to th.nk." lie
said, 'that our re our-,- to .my inhuman
pia. tiies fhot king to phllosopliv and
morality which Hie eiiemi has adopted
wotil'l 1 the slightest nfii"'t him 01 in
a:..v x.i) luoinole mil mlhtaiv su,res
"We shmilil tint gain, hut should rer
talllll lose, beciuse liollllng ha" won
us more apprmal and s.impathy ami all
that is best from t.-iitril nations than
the fail thai we have ,'hampionetl the
cause of humanity ami Juslnc"
TEUTON PRESS JOYFUL.
Zeppelins- II 11 1 il lulled Mnaler
plccc of l.crioiin (ienlua,
ii .a' ' tittlr llripntrh tn Tin: Si x
LiiN'no.x, Feb 4 --Herman newspapers
of Fehruar) .' which te. idled Ihigliitnl
tn-d.i) are matkeil b) irlumphant head
Urns and stories commenting on the re.
1 em 'A' ppclln tauls The A'nrmsi hr
t 1 fun tl sal s
"l ici ili.iii airships flew over IMi,
.Manchester Liverpool and Salonlea, all
within seienl).tuo hours What else
muld so graphically Illustrate the coins,
sal raiiillhatimis nf the mild war or mure
irlumplimitly Illuminate ihn enoimous
military strength revealed by Herman) 0
"If the French, who are not altogether
without icason, and who have al.i)s
been so proud of Ihelr tl.ilng achieve
ments, could do nothing against the air
ships, the Knglish uere almost entirely
pou cries against this masterpiece of
(lei man invetitive genius and technique
There is no real protection against at
tacks bv airships "
To llriiiird Zeppelin llrro rri,
Pains, I'rli 4. Tlie French neicspa.
pers have announced an offer of 2,,, una
fraiii I,",, Mini 1 tn mil- aviator who
brings ilnwu a Zeppelin within Hie
French lines. An oiler of 10,1100 fraius
(K. "OH) has been made ror any gunner
In an unit-aircraft bitlery who nis-nin-plishes
(he same result with shel s
xtsrill drss -New Orlewns. March 2 to 7th
MIUTIIIIIIN II A 1 1 AV A Y erlloe, :04 fifth
Ave., will furnish Inforiiiutton about sched,
ulrs fares, ele Adv,
V
PRICE TWO CENTS.
'GERMAN REPLY
'AWORDSHORT'
OF SURRENDER
It Docs Xot Quite .Meet the
American Demands. Imt
.Makes t OIICe.sMOll.s.
U'SITAXIA SIXKI.NC
STIIili II KLI) u:;ai,
No (ieriiiini S.Mioii.Mii for
"I)isaoal" t'oiiipliniles
tlic Situation.
l.'KAIi DAXtiKlf LI ICS
IX TIIK vii:y
JU'i'lin Insists l.anu'iiaire tn
He I'.M'il Must -Xtil Hp
llnmiliatiiii:.
Wash IM, ton . I,.. I . in .in
answtr to the il., 1111 n- of I ,. I tid
S'lales fur a .srillenieiit nl tin 1. 10 1 H' 1
eoutrmrl.'i was pi, -, nt,-, I Im- ., fit r
noon to Seiietir.i Lansing b 1 " 11 1 i"n
Hernslorff, Hie Herman initio-;.' lor
The repl) falls sliorl nf Hit tl, u n il
It lines not intitain Hie r.X.i' 1 1 ,r 1 f
ills. now. il i.illeil fm b te, I 1 r
States It does not m uords .1 tw
edge that the alt. ok on the I.i- ,
was Illegal
Hill the ir pl ,,'.- , oni.iin 11 . 1
taut ntn I'ssinns and ininis tirn.r in
met ling the demand" of this i;.n, :i
tnetit Hi. 111 am othei lominnii' 1' n
f loin ' 'terniaiii .
W'llf.thl r tlll'se hew r.Hin.- - are
sulllcientlo bring ahum an .itiie al'le e
tlement or wh.'tln r the I nie i sta r
xx ill fill obllgnl lo make a In I
In. ml Willi a 1I1111I tin, at ;, In. '1 ,.ff
diplomatic relations tcmalii- n, 1,, ih
Ided b) the t '1 . i,l. nt
Stale I it'pal tint ut atiihoi 11 ,. - ,1 1 a
to ast-utne resioiiihili!) .,i ixpn--.i.
an opinion beyond the ..s-uian t'l.i
to-dai's t otiferen. !.ciw..n , tr
Lansing and Anil, 1 mot ,,,, t:,. , p
had not made Die -1M1111..11 a,, B , .
than it has bieii
1. 1 rm 11 tl I 11 11 lid. 1 liouucr.
At til Hitmili kliili.esi o, il 111
litllltl, contldelii e ii-a s',,t,,. )., ,v.
thai tin Lu-ilaii 1 ,iim xx"iil,i .-. .1, .
without am d.'i omaltc lorak
Tile i-llllllll'ill sense I lew ti ,,
Washitigtoi' git.erall) wa- Hut , tw
Hoi ernineii',.-, haittig , nne 1.. 1 ...
while the) were debuting He in, ,
uf a word or two an. I xx 1 1 1 1
haling gradual, 1 mini. 01
aft I' ,111, '111,", would no! 1. ,w Ii
s. 'tuition go to t f 1 x.cit; ,,l ., , t
diplomat" iii'itti.r, In. 1 1 hen 1
It leas! ftlt'tuei it!s,'U-,i
Tile ISSUe helwieli the I'lllliil i
ami Heiniaiiv iuis lesolved iisi C f
Itllo til" iplt-sttou whethtr ie 00' 1 1,
pll.ll is llligll 'let 111. I 1) . . '1 -111
that It Is tin! and Sr, iet,i Lan- 1
si'ltlllg that .1 - 'Ihr bt llr! .tpt is .
Ii mail) ipiarteis hen to night 1 ij:,.
tin man) lias pioposi"! thai n s ,,1. .
Hon be submitted to arblliali'" 'I 1 ,
I'lllteil States lip to till." till" las Ii
fused lo arbitral! any phase o : 1 . I,
sitaitl.i case, insislltig thai n 1 1 , 1. -national
honoi.
The tit 1 isiut, of Ha- Adaiti-'i,'
tegard tri l'i He. Ill 111 tepi . 1 1,
nailiM Kit, 1 uli a) ni'Xt Tm-'l'
prohahl) ,,,'fnre tin Tues-lai i
tin I'tihiint im unit .iiiil ,1 1
matte!, but t i" pi oh ililr t n il ', l'i. -ih
til 111. 1 have Ulllile up II s in ' 1 l.
then.
Mtalllillle "111, 1. lis 1 1' Ihe .-, , ,. ,
p.lllmelt alt llli'I'li 111,11 kmg 1 1
s.i) lug I'. 11 tin' situation 1 ir, i , .
Irotn what - wa- -iieiol tin
when it was lies.- in .1 ,1- " ,, ,
'I lie Hetm.'iti tm mni'.iinluin w 1 1,1 ,
befole the sr, irtary In the Am' 1 . In
at 4 o'rlock In thr afltimiou 'l'i n
ten lew lasted Jll"! lift en mhilil.- l...-n
Ihe Societal 1 ami the .inli.is-.i. 1 hit,
inmcnnim.llal follow mg th 1,11 . 1,
It Is 11111I1 1 st'io'l, howcvi'i, Hi 1' Mr
Lansing told Hie tnil el," .11
lag the hit motan hmi that In V"uW hue
four ami pnhaps tlx, ,1.1, 1,,
IIS iimtelits and thai be in, It at, ,1 Hi
he would ban' tn, unfit' wph tl , I"
Idem
X sg II I II I'll n I lC!llllir.
Il is tiganlrd as sigmti, am i ,,f'i at
UU.irlrr" thai Hie Infoiinal n, g..' r ,.
liave not hern irrmlnatisl In i.,i,,'i
Kmhai-s) ipiiriris H wa. a- , t. , t .
lllght Hi.it all tl.iiigt r of a hn il 11 .In.
Inlliallc Irl.tlinlis has p.i..-til 'l'i..-,
It is adinltiril lh.it tin- in i.n .Iii. i
may lint tiaie goue to Hie full ii.i,i
ilcmamb'il hi thr I niinl Si.ili - tl ,. ,,,i.
tlonal coinrsslons ni.ule mu : u h i
c!iar,i''!ri . il w.t" Intimaitil, a- i-t ,'
It tllfth ult for Hn I'nlteil State t, re
ject them
Tlle.se con, e.s-lntip lela'e lit), 1,
gll.lge tn bo i liipliil nl by i),'i , i 'l
mi'i'ling the ilem.inil lor a .1 - .i i
lierm-in) doc- not i,e, rot l I i ' ' i ,
the attack on Hn- I.ii-iI.iiii.i n i- u, g ,
Nor dues Ihe uoid "disaioivai i, ,
In the Herman latigu.igi. i lit . i,
.-.ulnr has cxplaliiiil lo Mt I
thcle no wold ulinh i "i n i -I
meaning with ",lis ivowal " Tti I i i i.
word "ili'S.ivntii'i," xx 1 1 . 1 i hi I' i
adopted by Hi" Herman." and a) pi ,r 1 s
liealest tn 1" l!nglllll IVniil, ,1', I'
cMicll) curri'spoinl in meaniuc
Til" use of Ihe FlCtii'll term the
h.i"s.idni has ipl, iln.il to the s.
tary. would .niply 1 li.it Hie il,mn
I'ouimauiler iietnl lonirat to i ,
di't's, uhirli he did not do. nlnri , nio.t
the I'nlteil Stales uislies i let m. n ii i
Is to disavow tin' a 'I as Illegal
Nor. I Si i many si ill lino -t ,
iidtnlt lh.it the ntt. i, k Itself, ji f
reprisal against Hi eat Hrita w ,
legal fnr the reason she i i -. i i- in,1 :
ieriiation.il Ian- tei'i gnves n pr ,t ,
legal Mr. Lansing, liowixit t it
the stand that Interualiotuil law I ..I.I
reprisals to be Illegal bill liable l" y
flcallon.
Tho memorandum reeeiieii dm . i
1
