VNOZiaV XIN30Hd
MAR RE IS
NEW YORK CITY
Average coppsr price
week ending Feb. 2
25.23
WEATHER
it
M Arizona Fair
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 216.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 5, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
0
r
PINE
THRICE ESCAPES
tp a tit i xt I
P!l ! OICCCQ
LL I iWULU
DP
T UC
MIL U
BRAK
e
Democrats and Progressive
Republicans Vote, Solidly,
for Measure Granting Inde
pendence to Isiands.
PRESIDENT CAN USE
DISCRETION IN CASE
... r.
r- -
K
. ggnrai
James B. Barker.
uinon pi noire
SSUilU ULUULW!
LUSH!! !
QUESTION !
WHERE FLOODS HAVE TAKEN SCORES OF LIVES NEAR SAN DIEGO
"Illegal" is the Word Upon
Which Governments of
Germany and United Si2.tes
. Disagree for All Time.
AMERICA WANTS A !
COMFLETE DISAVOWAL!
.Ail A
A:--
cabs.
f
tJie hands of Villa men.
Maas'jje Pvow Goes to House ;
and it is Expected that
Eranch of Congress will
F&3 it Immediately.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 4 The Pliilip-I
pine bill, whh'h would extend to the
i. lamJs a grfrter degree of helf-gov-ernrnent,
would authorize the Vresi
d.?nt 10 prant them absolute indepen
dence wi'hin four years, passed the
Fra'e. Various Teniorrats led by
Chairman ?tone of the Foreign Rela
tions Committee tried unsuccessfully
to secure an amendment of certain in
dependence clauses. Jn the end the I
Hnioerats, joined ty six Propresssive
R -Micans, voted solidly for th '
ntea:-ure. It is understood the meas-
ure will go to the House with tbe back
in:: of the President. It will be press-,
ci for early passage. j
There is Uttle indication as to what Senator Underwood So Tells
prion the House will take. Adnnnis-t.-ption
leaders seemed confident the
till, including the independence feat
ure, which squared it with the .Balti
more platform, will haw; the approval
cf the House Democrats.
Berlin Editor Gives His Opm- j
ion that Questions is No I
Further Advanced Than it
was Some Months Ago.
James B. Barker, a California man
in Mexico, seems to bear a charmed
life. A few weeks ago, when seven
teen Americans were killed by Mex-
i o ti I . "i m rfl I a Pul-aii was catfaft ho.
cause he changed his mind at the ,'stumblinp: block to the Lusitania neso-1
last minute and refused to join the itiations, which caused Berlin to refer)
party. On two other occasions he jto the negotiations as having reached j
hd narrow escapes from death at ja crjsjs an(i caused Washington to,
WASHINGTON, Feb. 4. The word !
"illegal" as differently interpreted in '
the United Slates and Germany, is a ;
SYSTEM FUST
characterize the situation as grave. ;
Germany's answer as presented to
Lansing by Von Bernstorff, proposes.
insfead of a straight admissici of il- "
legality in the method of submarine-:
warfare used in sinking the Lusitania. :
the acceptance of liability for the loss;
of neutral lives. Berlin hopes this '
will satisfy the United States and still .
not bind Germany from continuing,
submarine campaign. i
4 x" wt"j.
ST V. -
1 ? k.
A 11'
. " A;. v. rwL".. -w.'; "VJR.t
SENATE HEARS
OFFICER 01
GUNNERY
Captain Plunkett Tells Naval
Committee of the Upper
Branch of Congress Some
Facts.
EXFERT DEFINES THE
MARKSMEN OF BRANCH
Back country near San Diego, ('a!., where floods hare played havoc.
Scores of lives have been lost and property valued at hundreds of thousands of dollars has been destroyed
in the flood which has just visited southern California. The storms were most destructive in the vicinity of Saa'
Diego. i i
GERMAN EDITOR SPEAKS '
BERLIN, Feb. 4. Theodore Wolf.j
editor in chief of the Berliner Tage-
blatt. commenting in a lone leading
American Electric Ry AsSO-j article, says many believed the Lusi-:
ciation's Banquet, Withltania ma,ter uas se,,Ied b"' that "jt :
-vu n 'has become rather critical" and that.;
Many Other Points. ; ;..the qUMtion is back whpre ,t De,an ;
.1 German officials believe their trevi-.
CHICAGO, Feb. 4. "Taken as a ,. s nrnmtcp tn din rnntinne sinlcin trim-
GERMANS OFFER -
. STATEMEHT
OF CASE
A tkoAi tha Kill An i i . . i- .
.... ..... i "oie u.e iranspunaiioii . ".-(resisting merchantmen without warn-
ion autlionzmg the Pres.dent. when the United States, so far as perform-; lnB from Ule subniarine captain is
independence is granted to negotiate , ing Its proper functions in the tran- wUhJ he ,e of in,ern),liona, law.
... . .i.anl any conclusion of tnat phase m Vamhrc nf I in Rry HnTA
rc)'tT of citizens of the United States ! ultimate markets and the carriage of !. f . . iUeiBDerS Or ueuM oerg rnze
. . . . .... . ntc iumi il 1.1 n ji rm-ii . u 1 1 II i I v
biiu ucr cuuiiiwes in ine isianas, io passengers lo ineir ue.si iiihliuii iu
acoMire such naval bases and coaling j safety and economy, is breaking.
stations in that territory as be deems ; dqwn," said Senator Oscar V Under
v. Pessary. wood of Alabama in an address dc-
No restrictions were imposed upon j livered tonight at a dinner of the
Filipino legislatures' power to levy j American Electric Kailway Associa
exnort duties except duties cannot be I tion and the American Electric Rail
levied on exports to the United States. p'ay Manufacturers' Association, after
The bill would increase the rights of . lie had reviewed a number of the,
suffrage by extending it to any citizen handicaps under whicn tiie railroailj
?Me to read rnd write in his native ' system labored today. . j
language. Polygamous marriages, im-! If there were no improvement, he
portation. sale and manufacture of in-' said, the country would demand gov-j
tOTicaling drinks md drugs except na-! eminent ownership, but such a result
tive beverages will be foYever prohib-'he thought would be unfortunate, andi
ited. No laws could be passed that per ; "e favored the "Golden Mean" along!
mit religious discrimination slarprv-nr ! the lines of private ownership and!
creation of a nobility. ! government regulation.
! "We must consider," he said, "the
j wisdom of government supervision of
the issuance of all securities by our
I transportation companies with the as
! surance to the public that new capital
! will be invested to secure proper faci-
and humiliating to the Imperial gov-1
ernment. j
Crew on Appam Outline
Wishes, Ambassador Spring
Rice Presses British Claim. I
HELP FOR SUFFERERS.
L1TTLK ROCK. Ark.. Feb. 4.
Relief for flood sufferers in
lower Arkansas River bottoms
will he sent from Little Rock to
morrow. Relief will be handled
by local men acting as agents
of the American Red Cross. Res
cuing parties made clear the
probability that other lives has
been lost in addition to the 14
already reported.
Parliament hi
i
VICTORIA
Senate Did Not Close Discus
sion of Army Increases As
Had Been Expected. Goe
thal's Report Expected.
WASHINGTON. Feb. 4. Confiden
tial marksmanship records of the navy
i were detailed to the House Naval Com
mittee behind closed doors by Captain
Plunkett. gunnery officer of tbe de
partment. At open sessiop he dis-
i He said the appropriation last year
j which provides for prizes for gun point
ers, would have been insufficient, had
! not the qualifications under which
they were earned been raised.
"They got a burst of speed." Plun
kett said, referring to the gun point
ers, "and would have swamped us."
He snid approximately seventy-five'
per cent of the enlisted force of thrt
navv from cooks to chief petty ofTices
had qualified in rifle praciee.
j Plunkett defined a marksman, which
i is the lowest rifle rating, as a n an
j "able to hit anything within two hun-
1SEUI
dred yards."
INVESTIGATION
OF
BIG FIRE
STARTED
I NEWPORT NEWS. Feb. 4. Thir
i teen of the twenty Germans w ho aided
.Lieutenant Berg's German prize creW
i in bringing the Appam across the j
I Atlantic, presented a written state
! incl.t 'to Collector Hamilton outlining
' their wishes as to the disposition to
j be made of them and asking a ruling
j by officials. The statement was held
' confidential and forwarded to Wash
I ington.
I
1
T
TAKE ANOTHER
FLTING TRIP
He said about thirty
j per cent were sharpshooters or five
hundred yard range ment. Tbe sen
!aie committee didn't close the hearing
on the army increase bill as expected.
. ' Canadian Speaker Sevigny I ob?b,y, ""ai Goethais- report on
i ..... , n t e nai ,np ( ana' Zone will be reported tomor-
Wlinom ivooes or uurce; irow with additions' of the canal fixed
No InteiTUtion of Official j defense works and on a mobile army
Business; Suspect Held. !as ""irwlns present canal defensrt
.'problems. The House military com-
OTTAAVA. Feb.' 4. The Canadian ! rcitfe agreed to close the bearings
Parliament met in the. Auditorium of':','Druary li
the Royal Victoria Museum. Speaker i
Sevigny was without his robes of of--i COLLECTOR RESIGNS.
ON SPECIAL MISSION.
LONDON. Feb. 4. Official commu
nications say thet Earl Curzon and
General Sir Douglas Haig, commander
tt te nn rlnrQtn.t.l tht sTntpmpnl run
Ail feC '11 1 tains information on whether their j OUCtess or me rirsi rreparea-De coutinued without interruption
u..uv vuj service with the prize crew was
Into the Cause of the Fire i voluntary. Berg also presented to the
Which Caused Death of 3 i collector a written argument contain-
and Possibly More.
ing his contentions respecting the dis-
ness Campaign Induces Mr.
Wilson to Consider Trip to
South and West.
fice, which were destroyed in last '
night's fire. Premier Borden read1 DOUGLAS. Feb. 4. Gabriel Corella,
messages' of condolence from King ' collector of customs at Nogales. So-
j George, Duke of Connaught. the Gover-; nora. resignd because his salary was
! nor Central anil others. Borden an- paid in constitutionalist currency in
jnounced there would be a searching; stead of gold, according to Chancellor
investigation into the cause of the fire'' Sarabia. who is connected with the
' and that the business session would ; Mexican consulate at Nogales. Sara-
i oia stated t orella s suDorutnate
I threatened similar action unless paid
HOLD SUSPECT 1 in sold. At current quotations, the
WINDSOR. Ont., Feb. 4 . Declaring constifitioial paper is worth about
he is suspected of being implicated j thl' ,ents on tl,p dollar.
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J.. Feb. 4.-
i position of the Appam, which
' was sent to Washington.
also
of British forces on the Continent, ' lities and used for leRilimate purposes) seaching investigation was begun by
are to proceed on a special mission
to the Belgian King.
ERITISH CLAIM APPAM.
WASHINGTON. Feb. 4 I:i
j I in the destruction of the Parliament '
I WASHINGTON. Feb. 4. The Presi- J Jujiding at Ottawa, provincial authori-j
jdent returned from his preparedness : arrested Charles Strony. aged 28. 1
(speaking trip so well pleased with the j wm, ay he Is a Belgian musician.'
as .
BANKER NEAR DEATH.
thp' results that he will probably make an-1 SlronJ- characterized the charge
CONSPIRACY CHARGED.
NEW ORLEANS. Feb. 4. Tho
federal grand jury returned indict
ments charging a conspiracy to viol
ate neutrality against "even Mexicans,
including Felipe Dusart Quintana, J.
de las Muneeas Simavilla, said to
have been trenerals in 'illa's army.
The defendants are alleged to have
entered into an agreement to ship
LOS ANGELES. Feb. 4 George M.
Reynolds, president of the Continental
National Bank of Chicago, is critically
other soon. If he goes he Drobablv I r;.iw.i..n imnir u t... taken
will visit lhn South nnH nossihlv unn. ' r. . .11 u " ! ;J ... !,.. i..r, ' t h's hotel hei according to his
- ' w...- nuill a rLniu uric, is fii iw i.a . u
of the far western states. Officials I nitawn twn honrn after the fire. '
munitions from
Mexico.
New Orleans Into
not for speculation. We must as- authorities to fix the responsibility for
; sure the public that when they invest' a fire which caused loss of at least1
: money in railway securities, which: three lives and razed the Overbrook name or the British owners of the
Ure supervised by government regula-! Hotel, a five story brick, frame strut-- Appam, Ambassador Spring-Rice lodg-
tions. we stand for a system of regu-'ture. Thrpp nthprs are missinc and ed with the State Department a forni
cation which will allow, the transporta-. are believed to have perished. Loss.al request that the ship be turned , Indicated thta possibilities of the Lus.
'tion companies to charge such rates U estimated at $150,000. 'over to the British consul under the ra,ie Present the only likely ob-
ifor carriage as will enable them to1 Two of the three bodies recovered terms of the Hague Convention. j stacle to a second trip,
'promptly meet their interest accounts : have been identified. Four were in- Notice was also served that it would; The President will not lose the ad
las well as their operating expenses. ' juried by jumping into life n-s and be B violation of international law foT ' Pntage he believes gained by his re
,We must perfect a system of regula-! will recover. Charges that the hotel the United States to permit the Ger- r"nt trip for preparedness, but will
ition that will recognize that the tran-i was Inaripnuatolv pnninn...! f..r nntoc man prize commander to either in- Press Congress for action on the army
.. .. . . . i .... t. : . : r u : .1 .1 nnsl navv hilltz au urrtn au nnwuihln Un t
sportauon lines or America are great, tlon from fire were denied by city ot-"-.; e...c.e..c, ... uu -, ; . nmiaIs ...,on th. of tne ; New York. will be the first to rweive
expects 10 noia conierences wnn sen- . . . . i . .... ...
physician. Members of Reynolds'
family left Chicago for Los Angeles
' on a special train after being notified
! by long distance telephone from here
of the banker's condition.
OPPOSITIO NFADES
I
j MONTEREY. Feb. 4. The belief.
ithat organized opposition to the de LADY PAGET HONORDED.
! facto government in the state of Vera NEW YORK, Feb. 4. Lady Kolph
Cruz had ended was exprt'ssd by Car-! Paget, formerly Minnie Stevens, of
SLEEPS TO DEATH
MARINETTE, Wis., Feb. 4
sleeping continuously for over a week,
Augustine Boauchamp, aged six, died.
public highways in "which the people ; ficlals.
are as much interested as those who!
have invested their capital in them.)
that every shipper in America must
have equal right in the transporta-j
LONG FAST
to her offensive power or recruit his ,
crew. The British contention U that , "tors and representatives next week.
I news of the surrender of General Sal-
azar with 400 men.
(he Prussian treaty of 1829 is abso-! It seemed improbable that the Presi- a"r ; ' , . , "-
.... J..1 .1 " 1: . ...... L .... n, ,i.i ml i.-ph,..o , ?a'ar stated the remaining oppo-. ( lubs for exceptional
the medal of honor awarded by tho
New York City Federation of Women's
service by a
i
ji the State Department' Mould alter Its i
The lad's malady remains a mystery. '.
II I .111 I J . r . t T L I
a i --r.--- --- - i itu n.iu.Mi. i hi., reu. t. .irs.
- 1 v 1 : t t. : . .1 . 1 l. Ul.k . cion- 1 . . i I lw. Pvnca an l.a,lt i. . . i".
i.uu i.i9 Ku.m i.ms "'",b. Baldwin finished her thirty-second ""' r'r
ways and that rebates and discrim- day of fas( duHn(; wni(.h shp h.ls rnn. ; antees prize to Germany.
inations or an Ktnas must De oi tne
TOO MUCH COYOTE
NINE RAIDERS RAID
NEW YORK. Feb. 4. Nine sea raid
ers of the type of the Moewe. have
been fitted out by Germans, one of
which escaped from Kiel New Years
with the Moewe and since have been
succes-Tnerce,
sumed onlv water. Her nurnose is re-!
past and prohibited in the future .and ducinK weiKh,. Sne has lost thirty!
we much recognize that the man who fwQ pollnds sh(, wj break f.lsl Slln. !
is willing to invest his money at a dav niRnt wh a few t)f pr.,p(, ,
moaerate rate ot interest in rauroaa jujce
securities is not exploiting the public
:,pUTO, , ENTERTAIN JUDICIARY. n-rcd thirteen, who. it is alleged, was
we musi consider tne wisdom or ... . .. .'
$20,000 FOR FLOOD.
WASHINGTON. Feb. 4. The Red
Cross telegraphed a fund of $20.000 '
for the aid of flood sufferer in the !
sition consisted of ex-federals. Offi-; woman "beyond the lines of duty."
'cials said Manuel Palaez. a Villa ad- according to an announcement. Lady
Jierent. whose small band raided th Paget went to aid Serbian women at
'oil companies of tbe Tuxpam district ,h time of the occupation of Mon-
had retreated to the hills. The Car
ranza forces bold all important points.
I.OS ANGELES Feb. 4 -A suit for j -Mississippi Valley and ordered two ofj
$15,000 damages was filed in Iho supri i,S aSen,S ,t0 ,1,e noo,led dis,r1' ' ,0,
...:. .: direct relief work. .
ui iiiiiii hi ui'lllHl ui iiit .iu i,niii,
GOV'T TROOPS SUCCESSFUL
astir by the Bulgarians.
Tho Pre;!- ""i nv a coyote belonging to It. K.
held their Homer. It is said the natural beauty
. , ..uise.cond reception of the White House! f hor arms had lessened her chancf i ')
in trouble with , wh p (h r InarrvinK whpn MlP Rrows ol(,Hr. j pare for possibl
UiUy prewins on Rritish com-; fl(1 ... ' , . dent and Mrs. Wilson
-f0.u,..K .o a s.ory ioia oy ... fn(. v Tho nln.
.Mrs. Francis Fuller, wife of the British ! .k. ,,,,; , I social season with the j
Governor General of Ashanti, who was ' . ,u, ,.., , k j ' Sunrenie Court and other members of , The coyote escaped from the Homer
is mat corporate law has been de- . '. . , . . ... . ,
one of the passengers on the Appam, ! structive not constructive has been ,he federa1 j,l''i' iar-v as Bl"'Kl!' of . ard January fi and bit the girl,
landed at Norfolk and who arrived ! nearPnlpoi not ronmrohonslvp i honor
1,PrP' ' "The President of the United States
in his recent message to Congress has j DENY REJECTION
TO OJINAGA? recommended that a commission! PHILADELPHIA. Feb. 4. Anthra-
PRKSICIO. Texas, l-eb. 4. Villa is . should be appointed to give a thor- ci,e operators denied they had finally
WASHINGTON. Feb. 4. Victories
MAKES PREPARATIONS.
i for Chinese government troops over
:the rebels operating near Suichowfu ;
WASHINGTON. Feb. t.To'prc-;",d ,l,p rrival of a1,i'al govern- J
THREE DROWNED.
VINEYARD HAVEN. Mass.. Feb. 4.
Three were drowned when a coal
! barge sunk off Point Judith in a col
j lision with a steamer. Two were
rescued.
e revision of commor
ient forces to cope with the situation
in Yunnan, is announced in a dispatch
i from tho Pekin Foreign Office to th
RELIGION FOR PRISONERS.
NEW YORK. Feb. I. A committee
has boon organized here for prosecut-
ITALIAN AVIATOR 'MISTAKEN
cial treaties when the war ends.
i-ansing created an omce or advisory j : ing gospel work among war prisoners
capacity on commercial treaties In!1 "",e!,p nation nere. i no uispatcn , , niiIitarv lU.tmion tamps in Ell.
the State Department and appointed ,n Sovernment troops killed half j ropp Th; nu,vem)nt wal aUvo.atea
W. B. Fleming to the position. Flem
ing win investigate and analyze trade
GENEVA. FeV 4 An Italian obser- , relations between the United States I sn,,1 Picked guards from' Pekin arrived ; ,.urclics of tho country for aid.
'the rebels at Suichowfu.
The dispatch continues:
I.
"Six thou.
by clergymen and laymen of ariotis
denominations. who appealed to
at Chunking. With the arrival at I
Kwangtung tho troops under command
FINAL ARTICLE SOON. 'er 'ni Ku.mg at Mentzo and Kite
NEW YORK. Feb. 4. Tex Richard ,'chow troops on tho provenslal border.
eivo a thor-;c"e operators denied tney nad tinatiy vat ion aeroplane of a new type yester- nnH nihpr nutimw
rcporf.ed as advancing to attack Oji-i0ugh investigation to all the problems 1 rejected the demands formulated by. day Mew over Lugano and the Swiss
naga. oppo-ne nere. General Kiojas, ; that confront us in tho field of tran-'"" "'ine workers as reported in New! position on Moule Genere. The aero
the Carr.tnza commander at O.iinaga, ! sportation. As 1 under stand the pur-1 York dispatches last night. The de- . piano was hit repeatedly by the vio-,
.ort 1 jo men to intercept ilia at pose of this investigation, it is not to mands of the miners ratified by the lent fire of Swiss guns. Tho aviator who is promoting the Willard Moran : ,llP rebels of Yunnan have been sur
P.ott:e Bonito. fifty miles west. Ranch- j hold an inquest of what had happened International convention' of I'nited , was uninjured, hut was forced to land bout for March 17, said Willard sjrcundod .No difficulty, will be experi
men living near Ojinaga have been j in the past. If errors have been com-! Mine Workers at Indianapolis will be ion Swiss territory. He was made a manager. Tom Jones, will be here and tnced in the early restoration of order
Fkid to assist in the defense of that mited or injuries have been done. I formally presented -to the operators at prisoner. Ho said he had flown over tho final agreement will be signed as u encompassing movement has al
place. (Continued tn Pace Two. New York February -1. Swiss territory by mistake '.Wednesday. ready begun.
PRIZES FOR AVIATORS.
PARIS, Feb. 4. Newspapers an
nounce an offer of 2O.000 francs to
any aviator whi smceeds in bringing
down a Zeppelin within the French
lines, an offer of 10,000 francs to any
gunner of anti-aircraft batteries who
obtains the same result with shells.
