ALBID QUEiRQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY,
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
TlllltTV-Si:VKNTH YOU.
VOI,. I'XI.IX. X. 8.
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO,SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1916.
DEMOCRATS IN
SANTA Ft Ml K
Til
FIRST DAI
NOTHING
DONE
State Central Committee Pro
crastinates and Finally Ad
journs Until 9 o'Clock This
Morning; Harmony Prevails
CHAIRMANSHIP JOB IS
UNDESIRABLE HONOR
Bob Putney Declines to As
sume Leadership;
Walton May Possibly
THE WEATHER
WKATIIKIl
Denver, Fob. 4.
urday and Sunday
cast portion.
1XMIKCAST.
Ww Mexico : Sat
fair, cooler south-
at
local uravriiKii. mitrnT.
For twenty-four hours, ending
o p. in. yesterday:
Maximum temperature, 43 degrees;
minimum, 19 degrees; range, 2ti de
crees; temperature at 6 p. m., 41' do
grees; southwest wind; clear.
ami that was a good exeu.se to tho
rest of the committee to take up most
of the afternoon In talk. It Is alto
gether probable, however, that If
that excuse had been lucking, nnoth
er would have been found. All the
member.s hud something to Buy, and
it in a democratic rule to let every
body say what he wants und get it off
his chest.
Harmony l"rovails.
It must be said, however, that close
harmony prevulled In ull that was
done. There was not the first faint
.sign of a wrangle. Nobody had a
Knife out for unybody else, optimism
real, bright, cheerful optimism
oozed out at every pore. The only
sign of a disagreement was when
W C (Adolph I. Hill proposed to allow all
'', 'nmiii'ralu u'hntVtei I. ...... ..f 41,..
fjg committee or not, to vote on the
( ..1... I ....... ...a. I .. fl.:.. .1 1..
, i , r l I I rv l ' i t-imuiiiiMiniui'. join nua uuiuuhl
Induced to laKe Up Burden ; opposed i.y j. n. mst and k. v. tig-
mnnn and wus finally ruled out of
order.
It was nearly 3 o'clock when CI. 12.
I Moffatt arose and moved that tho
in the supreme
court room resolve themselves into a
m
E
RAIDERS
OF I I T E
FITTED OUT BI
DARING GERMANS
Dully by Carrier or Mall, eo
Month, single Oopl,6
One Other Commerce Destroy
er Is Said to Have Broken
Through Cordon of British
Fleet and Now Is at Work,
PLOT TO OVERCOME
PRIZE CREW BETRAYED
Lieutenant Berg's Men Are
Said to Have Placed Bombs
About Appam to Be Explod
ed; Overawed Prisoners,
(V MORNINO. JOURNAL RPRC1AL LIASID WlRI)
New Yolk, Feb. 4. Nine sea raid
ers of the type of the Mocwe have
been fitted out by the Germans und
SPECIAL DISPATCH TO MORNINQ JOURNAL,
panta Fe, Feb. 4. Those who ex
pected that the democratic state cen-i democrats assembled
tral committee of New Mexico would ;
assemble promptly, select a chairman meeting and that Lieut. Gov. H. C. de0ne of them, which escaped from Kiel
to succeed Jumcs it. I'axten, trans- j uaea ie named cuairman. io nppo
act the routine business and then dis-jsltlun was expressed and Mr. do Itacu
lierse. recKoneii without a Knowledge tooic the cnair. I
of democratic customs and traditions. Some time later Secretary Guilfoil
A gathering of the "unterrifit d," un
accompanied by volumes of oratory,
would be opposed to ail precedent, if
indeed, it would, not be positively Il
legal.
j on New Year's day with the Mocwe.
i has since been preying on British
commerce with as much success as
arrived with a bundlo of papers under , 'ho Appam s captor, according to a
his arm, having just gotten In from! story told here tonight by Mrs. Fran-
Albuquerque. It developed that every
I county in the state, w ith the single ex-
eeption of Taos, was represented j
As a result of this condition
committee Diet today, talked things
over, and then talked them over
again, and then talked them over
some more. Some lime after 5
o'clock the announcement was mado
that nominations for chairman were
in order, whereupon the committee
men decided that it would be best to
wait until tomorrow morning and
get a fresh start on that important
question.
A liiR'SKin Contest.
The man. who can guess wlio will
be named to lead the cohorts of the
democracy in the approaching cam
paign, bus more than prophetic vi
sion. . liob Putney could have tho
job without the asking. All he
would have to do would be to signi
fy his w illiiignesii to accept it if it
were tendered to him. Hut Hob de-!
clares in most emphatic terms that
II) (. either in person or by
; committeemen from San
proxy. The
Juan county
hioj been snowed in, but they bad pro.
Ided themselves with proxies.
A. A. Jones Present,
As soon as tho meeting was organ-
Ir d, Assistant Secretary of tho Inter- j
ior A. A. Jones moved that It resolve j
itself into the committee of tho whole, j
on 111" state of the union, and hearj
from the brethren. Governor McDon
ald stated that in his opinion it would j
be best not to attempt to elect a. chair- i
man hastily, but th'.t the lucinbcrs;
should wait until tomorrow when
everybody had time to think it over
und talk it over.
Tho speeches that followed breath
ed nothing but harmony. Enthusiasm
and good feeling were everywhere
cis Fuller; wife of the British
crnor general of Ashantl.
Mrs. Fuller was one of the ninety-
. j seven passengers of the Appam who
,' arrived here from Norfolk on board
! the Old Dominion steamer Jefferson.
I Forty officers and ninety-three mem
(hers of the British vessel captured by
the Mocwe and later taken in charge
by the German prizi; crew which
brought the Appam to American
waters, also were on tho Jefferson.
Passed Three I'noniy Cruisers.
Mrs. Fuller declared that one of tlv
German officers who came aboard tho
Appam was authority for the state
ment that the Germans had equipped
the nine raiders at Kiel. She said he
told her (lie Moewo and the other
raider which esaped the British patrol
pussed within a stone's throw of three
British cruisers within a few hours
after they left the Kiel canal. All the
Summary or War
News of Yesterday
From Belgium to the Wsgcs moun
tains, the bl.f guns of both subs are
hurling hbells at opposing positions
and in addition there has been con
siderable grenade fighting and sapping
operations. The British urtillery has
shelled German trenche between the
Homme and Ancre livers, and Brit
ish suppers have countermined and
destroyed by an explosion a mine cra
ter held by the Germans north of
Huilueh.
The Germans have bombarded Bilt
ish trenches around Livordingho, to
the northwest of Yprcs, and near Loos
and Nciivllle have been engaged with
the entente allies in lively hand gre
nade fighting. The French are in
creasing their urtillery lire at various
points, especially in the forces of tho
Argonne. i
Kxcept for an air raid by the A us
trlans at Shunisk in Volhynlu, where
numerous buildings were set afire,
nothing new hai come through con
cerning the situation on the Itiisslan
and oust Giilician fronts. Artillery
duels still predominate along lli
Austro-Ilallun line.
The Austrlans are continuing their
advunce into Albania, with Dura ,
their immediate ' objective, and have
captured the town of Kurya, accord
ing to the Austripn oflicial communi
cation. It is probable that tho town
Krola, some twenty miles northeast of
Durazzo, is l lie place taken, us availa
ble maps show no "Kurya." The Vi
enna report says also that the Aus
trian vunguards lisve reached the
Ishnl river, which flows to the south
of Kroia.
In West Afrlc the British report
the capture of additional German
forces by the French and declare that
Urong French columns are moving
toward the Spanlijh New Guiana fron
tier, to which country the Germans
cov-'recently were reported to be in re
treat.
The German government reports
that Zeppelin I-1 !, which had been
on a reoonnoitering expedition, has not
returned to Its base, tuns confirming
(he report of the loss of the airship
in the North sea.
SENATE PASSES
BILL GRANTING
INDEPENDENCE
TO PHILIPPINES
the
gov-
members, t,ent -two chosen by
voters ami two appointed by the
crnor tenelal to represent the nun
Christian tribes, The lower house
would be increased from eighty-one to
ninety, the people choosing eighty-one
and the governor naming nine,
The governor general Would have a
veto power, such as rests now with the
secretary of war. A two-thirds vote
of the legislature Would be needed te
overrule it. The president would have
tho right to Interpose an absolute veto
within six mouths.
No restrictions are imposed upon
the legislature's power to levy export
duties except that they cannot be lev
ied on exports to the I'nlted States.
A limit of $ 1 7.000,000 Is placed on the
MprKIIT tf) Rrrnmn Fffpriivp "lblu' Indebtedness, which permits the
, ,,v,vl,, ,,.,,,. ,,f pw ,
Within Four Years Provu - r.noo.uoo
th.
be.
ed President Doesn't
Fit to Cause Delay,
See,
ioimIs to replace
Friar bind bonds, now
lug retired.
The bill Would Increase the right of
suffrage from the present i!M),lHHt to
approximately 700,000 by extending It
to any citizen able to red and write
a native language. Polygamous mar
riages, and the Import, sale or manu
facture, of Intoxicating drinks or dings
except Ihe native beverages would be
, ll'oi'ever prohibited, and no laws could
I be passed that would permit religious
William Alden Smith Declares ',1'MCr',n,,M,,i,n- ,av,,r- "cation
or a nooiuty.
VOTE RECORDED IS
52 AYES AND 24 NOES
United States Is Playing
Coward in Throwing Off
God-Given Responsibility,
! MORNINR JOURNAL RRIC1AL LRA30 WIRI)
Washington, Feb. 4. -Th Philip
pine bill which would extend to the
Islands, u greater degree of self-government
and would authorl.e tho pres
ident to grunt them absolute Independ
ence within four years, passed tin
senate tonight, 52 to 24.
democratic oenutors, led by Chuirman
Stonn of the foreign relations commit-
War Supplies
Plant in Ottawa
Totally Destroyed
BERLIN REFUSES
Ml
TIT
LUSH IMS
ILLEGALLY S
Ambassador Bcm'storff Pre
sents Final-Statement on
Subject to -Lansing Without
Comment.
NO FURTHER CONFERENCE
LIKELY, SAYS DIPLOMAT
What Attitude United States
Will Take Is Now in Hands
of President. Wilson and
Congress for Decision,
IRT MORNINR JOURNAL SPATIAL LIARIO WIRI I .. . ' "RRR 1DMR 1HaHtr NINROH ARI
Ottawa, Out., Feb. 4. Fire of tin-' "asnington, rob, 4 The one word
known origin tonight destroyed the i "'"egal," as differently Interpreted in
I plant of Grant, Holdoii and Grahami11"1 Cnltod .Slates and Germany, pro
I company, Ltd., which has been rn-jfude from the tentative draft of the
'gaged In manufacturing nothing and Lusltanla agreement, perfected by
Various haversacks for tho militia department. Ambassador von Bernstorff and Scire-
Klght employes were in the building i-"smg, as tne stumbling block
when the fire started, but all escaped .which has caused Berlin to refer tu
he is a grocerymnu and not a poll- Hero come the entente po'vers and the
tlcian; that he is trying to make central powers acting just like broth
friends und not enemies; that he ers."
wouldn't have the office as a pre- Speeches were made by Judge K. V.
cious gift, and that nobody can even Long, Judge N. B. luughlin, Dr. O. It.
chloroform him and make him Kohlhausen, F. F. Saxoon, Alvan N.
take it. White, Isaac Barth, J. f.'. Gilbert, Col.
AYallon Looks a Winner. V. S. J lope well, Filadelfo Baca, Dennis
Slate Senator W. B. Walton looks i Ghavcz, Uev. If. ". Vermillion and O.
moro like a winner tonight than any N. Marion. The speech of Mr. Ver
mn who has been considered. The million was especially happy and
one big factor to be considered in ! brought forth protracted applause,
figuring bis chances is that he as-i .Martinez Favors Putney,
sorts that he doesn't want the assign- The only mention of a chairman
meat and that if ho has to fight fori"1''!' '"mo when a telegram from
it. ho will not have it.' And tho ! Kellx Martinez was road in which
prevalent. When E. D. Tlttmann and
Col. W. S, Hopewell walked Into the British officer,, and seamen agreed
court room, arm In arm, Judge N. H. ' that 'he raider appuivntly was a new
I.anghlln remarked: "The war is over. ! essel of about t,.',00 tons gross. Her
cluinees are that the man who gets
tho chairmanship will have to fight
fur the honor.
There is some talk of Arthur Sellg-
uiiin, but the mention of Ins name on i
the floor of tho committee is sure to
provoke a fight. Thero are forces
within tho party that are bitterly
opposed to the Santa Fe man, and
tonight ho doesn't look like a very
good bet.
KolilliauMii Suggested.
Dr. C. B. Kohlhausen, of Baton, is
here, and some of his friends want
to make him chairman. The doctor
himself says it's ridiculous to consid
er him and pooh-poohs the idea, but
stranger tilings have happened than
that ho should be made tho head of
tho campaign forces -of. the democra
cy for this year.
The fact is, that nobody Is a candi
date for the chairmanship. The of
fice is seeking the man and the man
Is running himself to death to keep
H from finding him.
Santa Fe train No. 10, bearing a
number of the committeemen from
tho southern and southwestern coun-
coal bunkers, tin y said, were unusu
ally large, as if built for long cruises.
The Germans took every precaution,
they added, to shield the four guns
mounted forward and the one mount
ed aft, but they appeared to be of the
fifteen centimeter type,
Plot to Sel.e Crew Met i'u, veil.
M. C Watson, also a passenger on
the Appam, told of a plot to overeoniP
the Germans who comprised the prize
crew of the Appam. Watson, who said
he volunteered as third officer on the
Appam, declared tho plot was frus
trated through treachery und that It
hcj would be made the subject of a report
I to tne British consul general in New
I York.
' ' "The Germans," udded Watson
"were fearful of us and ignored many
Insults thut were hurled at them.
Alfred Osborne, a miner from the
Gold Coast of Africa, also told of the
plot to overcome iho Germans. Both
he and Watson refused to go into de
tails, however, saying they had been
requested to say littlo until the facts
were given to the British consul gon
erul. Not Ordered to liOiuloil.
.Sir Edward Merewether. British
I governor general of Sierra Leon, de-
I nied published reports that ho had ro-
.. . .. . .. jcclved a cablegram from the British
Made Heaaauarters at Mam-i admiralty directing him to proceed to
(( iilitiiiuisl on J'uge Two.)
LOST ZEPPELIN
toe, tried unsuccessfully to secure 'l'. The los on tbo building '"" "'""' " a '"imih; reacnou a
-amendment uf certain features of the M"n" H llx,',l "t -"," N estimate uMungion to cjiaracierie
ilndenen.lom o elans., hot In ih 1 has been made on the value of the ;"'e situation as grave. ,
tho democrats, Joined by six progres- H,ork. hut a huge mipply was ready; 'I'1"' German Position.
; normally s answer, . presented lu
jHeerotary Lansing today by Count von
iWO D HAVF RFTTFR jtiornsioirr. proposes instead of an our-
slvo-republlcuns, voted solidly for the "' delivery
measure.
i:.VM( led i puss House.
mm bo
COMPARATIVELY
I
E
It Is understood, tho bill will go to
the house with tho backing of Presi
dent Wilson und will be pressed lor
early passage. There has been little
Indication of what uction the house
will take, but administruton leaders
tonight seemed confident that tho bill,
Including the Independence feutun,
which democratic senators declaru
squares it. with the Baltimore plat-
jforni, would have the approval of tbo
I house democratic majority. The re
publican senators who voted for the
bill were Borah, i'lapp, Kenyoil, Lu
Follette, Norrls and Works. By over
whelming majorities the senate had
refused to modify tho Clarke umend
nn a -o ,1 1 m in ss on of ill,. unlit v ,,r n,n
TRADE WITH SPAIN ,,lt'hl of submarlno arf are used by
, the German naval authorities in sink-
ling- tho liner, an scceptnnco of liabil
ity for tho loiss of neutral lives, which
Berlin hopes will mtlsry the I'nlted
Slates and still not bind Germany
from continuing the submarlno cam
paign. , .
Gorman officials bellovo that their'
previous promise to discontinue sink
ing unresisting merchantmen without
British War Office Issues
CI-, AllMlifY
uimoiiium onimiiig tmiui ,h,. ,.,, of UlUt 3 lf lM) Humid liul
Has Been Accomplished by ;ii'ons i,, ih,, wundM Unfvori.i.i...
, i . , 'j Jhe time would be extended, however,
be mi an Aerial Attacks, i"' """ incoming congress couui
ILL 01 TO
THE NORTH SEA
burg and Pondern and Pa- the
trolled Wide Area; Sent Boat
to Inspect Swedish Steamer
tr MORNINR JOURNAL CIL UIO WIRR1
London, Feb. 4 (9:4 p. m.) A
dispatch to Ileuter's Telegram com
nanv from Copenhagen says the.
ties, was several hours lute today, ! wrecked Zeppelin L-1H was well
The Day in Congress
capture of the Appam.
He and Lady Merewether will sail
Monday for London.
The Jefferson also brought about
forty other Britishers who have been
in the service of the African Gold
Const colonies. They told of tho pre
cautions taken by the German prize
crew to avoid plots on board the Ap
pam. Bombs, they said, were spread
about the Appam und connected with
wires and sentries warned them that
any attempt to overpower the prize
crew would result in the ship being
blown to pieces.
siivvric
Lieutenant Governor Eshclmnn of
California pleaded for relief of oil
Prospectors before public lands com
mittee. Senator Thomas cubniitted a reso
lution denouncing destruction of Can
'"lian parliamentary building as "in
cendiarism." Senator Works attacked president's
"iiense campaign before the mdi
1;ir.v commiiii.o
MRS, HAYNES FINALLY
IDENTIFIED BY SON
assed, (,' to -'4. bill to enlarge self-! t . u. water
f,uveininem n (he Philippines and ! rnntalninc the
fcf'int them abtsolutu independence in! who bought pome provisions on
l""r . ! the steamer.
I assed bill appropriating sittu.yno'
"'! flood relief in MissWhitmi valley. i liKltlJN ADMITS AIKSH1I
known along the west coast. It wus
formerly stationed at Hamburg and
Pondern and was frequently mention
ed in newspaper reports received
from captains of North sea vessels.
For some time the airship patrolled
the area around Horn Heef and re
lieved the wrecked Zeppelin L-18 at
Pondern.
1 The B-l!) was first mentioned about I "' journal rpical lkrio wiri
I . I h Pltirii I.VI, i A ,i, Vit.ri t l..u of
two months ago when, accompanied , ..--,-. - .. ....... ...
bv the L-7 and L-K it stopped a ""' I'wcopathio hospital hero were
Swedish steamer in the middle of the convinced today that Mrs. Nana V.
'North sea and sent a party aboard to j '(,"ti y ws in qncs-
! inspect the steamer's papers. on ,on to? ,l,' ,1,st W,'' K- tilU r "ho had
ithis occasion the airship descended i f,Jll"1 wandermg In a Chicago
!,o within a few vards of the surface I 1111 lr"a'l s,at'" money, Jewelry
launched a boat ,"'u i mwc man tu,-
lav MORMIN3 JOURNAL IPCCIAL LCAiCD WIRE!
London, Feb. 4 (11:40 p. ni,) The
war office tonight took Issue at the
German official statement concerning
the amount of damage done in the r
cent Zeppelin raid on England. The
damage to Industrial or commercial
establishments Is said by tho war of
fice to have been as follows:
"Serious damage was done to three
breweries, three railway sheds, one
engine shed, one tube factory, one
lamp factory, and one blacksmith
shop. Minor damage, such as tho
shattering of glass and doors, occurred
at a munition factory, at an Iron
works in two places, ut a crane fact
ory, at a harness factory, ut a railway
grain shed, at a colliery and at a
pumping station. No docks and no
frrunarios, munition factories or In
dustrial establishments of any sort
other than those mentioned were dam
aged. "Sonic fifteen bouses of working
class people were demolished und a
large number of small shops anil
dwelling houses were Injured, some
seriously, but many slightly.
"Tho latest returns of casualties
show that twenty-six men, twenty
eight women and seven children were
killed and that forty-eight men. forty,
siv women and seven children were in
jured. It is not purposed in future to
lsBii( detailed statements of this
IRV MORNtNII JOURNAL CIAL LtARIO WlRIj
Paris.-Fell. 4 (4:00 p. in.) -Dr. C.
YV. A. Vedltz, American commercial
uttuohe from France and Spain', de
parted from purls today for Madrid
under instructions from Secretary,
Uedfleld. In conjunction with Anibas-l
sudor Wlllurd ho will take up with
King Alfonso and the Spanish uovem-,
nient important matters relating to wni'"H brings the submarlno enm
commerco between Spain and the within tho pule of International
I'nlted States. jlaw unA 'hat any inclusion of that
Among the subjects which Dr. Vc-;,,,"", 1,1 tn T.Usltarila Incident 1 uty
dit will discuss are tho forthcoming "ecessaiy und huinlliutlnyf to the 1m-
uit iiu- i . tneiial iriivoritmnnt '
menl, adopted several days ago, which, "'-" "I'-msn eusuuns .ar.u.j - - ...,,,.
i nil, ,i olihj unii , ne Aes,ein roual ,q , .... ...... .,,lo
Spain. icontentions of the United .states, is
. ... Uakcn to have been regarded In
! Death linds Mock's KhMji. Berlin us being susceptible of uppliea-
Maritietto, Wis,, Fd,, 4. After llo not to tho Lusltanla case alone,
I sleeping continuously for over a "jut to tho entire submarine cain
I week, Augustine lleauchamp, bx i I)ft 'kh
years old, son of Mr. and Mrs, An- T,,at )M ho only explanation offi
gust Beauchamp of Esscanabu, dieil clals hero can find for the statement
I yesterday. The malady from which 'of 1)r- Zimmerman, under secretary of
line lad suffered remains a mystery, .foreign affulrs, that "the l.'nited States
jntiuueniy mado new demands which it
It Imposslblo for us to accept."
Kantu Fe, Feb. 4. District Judge; tiecretary Lansing declared today
David J. Leahy of Fast Ijjs Vegas, Is ! that tho position of the United plates
to sit for Judge E. C.
consider the subject.
char- co ii c 1 1 ru
neter, n It is Inadvisable to give in-.
Stone Is Voted Down.
! Senator Stone declared tho bill was
in reality not an independence mens-1
lire at all because of the extension
provision and offered an amendment I
to eliminate it, but his proposal wnsj
voted down, fit) to 17. Chairman j
Hitchcock, chairman of tho Philippine
(committee, sought to amend the bill;
toy extending independence within lour, Hanlu F.
years on condition that the people anlL)bott who
legislature should runty a constitution. (,( ,zteo
This was rejected, 52 to 2f, I
"I am making a last appeal for
what i think Is good faith and Just
treatment of the Philippines," said
Nenator Stone, In urging his amend
ment. "I am unquestionably and un
conditionally in favor of carrying out
tho pledge of Iho democratic party by
relinquishing control over tho Philip
pine islands completely. I am not In
favor of conferring Independent's with
a string to it. I oppose any provision
'which will make it poaslblc for a fu-t
lure president of the I'nlted HtateB to
send this issue back to congress. We
,are, in this bill, not offering independ
ence in laet, but merely a suggestion
of It to some future president."
Criticism of Pwsldcnt.
Senator Norrls, In opposing n pro-:
vision in the bill empowering tho pres
ident to retain naval bases in the Phil-1
Ippines, declared President Wilson Is'
from a man of peace to u :
militarist. "The president," said Sen-!
Judge Ioaliy In Santa 1'c.
expects to convene court
Kan Juan county, next week.
I
a I
was unchanged and the German am
bassador knew of no new demands
which woro embodied in tho propo
sal ho sent to Berlin. ' '
Teuton Substitution,
it la known that tho only change
tho Berlin foreiun office has mado lu
(the agreement drawn by tho decretory
land the ambassador is to buhstltuto
ifor tho word "Illegal" u phrase which,
Iwhllo assuming liability for tho live
!of neutrals lost on the Lhsllanla, does
not admit ot construction into prohi
bition of mibnunino wnrf.irc.
The dispatch tho ambassador ro-
leelvod today and presented' to' tho see
! rotary was very brief nntl covered
p... ionly that ' one point. Otherwise tho
document Is unchanged as It ; wax
Minutes Given the uriiw" to in,'L'1 " the contentions, or
,fl... I'lilfr,.! L't
ArC Mtuallon I'ncliiingcd.
Alter tho ambassador's visit to tho
stale department today, Secretary
; Lansing declared "tho situation Is uu
; changed."
j That may bo authoritatively stated
to represent tho situation accurately.
,jlt bad become no moro grave, and by
REACHES PO
Ti
Only Four
Crew to Take to Boats;
Left in Open Boat to Mercy
of North Sea,
IRV MDRHlN JOURAi. ftPJt-IAL L i A f, f D Wlfttl
London, Feb. I (la ."hi u. m.)
1000, sewed in
i...rri m'trier ot Larl
Adjourned
Mondav.
at 6:L'2 p. m. to noon.j
HAS NOT HKTCn.VKD!
Indian
tmie.
Govern or
lual lone
""tue the date of
"aterway still Was
lafe of slides.
"JJor General
her clothing, is tho
N. Uayn- s, of Whar
ton, Texas. Hay nes, who arrived
here today, produced a picture which
he Maid was one of his mother. The
woman recognized It as one of her
self taken twenty years ugo. The
1 Berlin (via London, Feb. 4, 9:44 p. I case will be taken to the county court
j ,,, ) official communication is- j to obtain her release.
ill under de-i sued today admits that Zeppelin l-ij
I has not returned from a recoiinoitei
Goethals of the Panama jing flight and that inquiries concern
told appropriations com-ling the airship have been without re
scopening the,KUlt.
speculative be-;
formation to the enemv as to the re-.utor Norrls. "recently announced
suits or llicir air auacus. On tho oc- prugiam oi piepaietiiioNs contrary loldispntoh to the Star from Itottenlam I mat tact It has become no less grave,
easion of this raid, however, in which views he held u year ago. and In tho Imrrics the store of a member of Mie'l'n Mains has not materially changed
tho lurg''St number so far of alrships(last few days he has changed ' hi.H ; icv of the Imtch lank steamer Ar-'1"1'' It 'nay remain so lour or five
have been employed, this statement of mind on that. Now he says ho Is inltemis. which whs torpedoed in tho '"ays at least while President Wilson
North sea and arrived yesterday at thcuni1 Secretary Lansing consider Ger
Ilook of Jlolland in a leaking tnli- ninny'M answer fully. In a like nian
tion. iner It may be stated anthorltutively
The tanker in ballast sailed from 'n,'t it docs Hot ftdlow that Cither a
tin- damage done is given in order to, favor of the t nlterl states having the
show how unfounded Is the claim that 'largest navy In the world. If that is
the economic life of Great Britain or .his Idea, be will want to retuin not!
one but a dozen naval stations in
the Philippines."
Senator William Alden Smith scored
tlv.s democrats for their determination
to give up tho Philippines and de-
its military preparation can bo appro, only
clably affected by promlseotis bomb
dropping from airships wandering
over th,. country In the dark.
"In the twenty-niup raids, groat and
small, that have taken place over
Grout Britain since the war began,
133 men, of whom seventeen were sol
diers; ninety women and forty-three
children have been killed. But when 'rend
It. Is remembered that in the Lusllania
alone 1.1US pt rsous woro drowned.
Zeppelin raids as a means of murder
ing: liinoc'iit civilians must be com
paratively disappointing to their promoters."
tho Hook of Holland for Lngland at
midnight Tuesday, carrying the distin
guishing lights to proclaim her a neu
tral. After siuroiy an hour's steam-
completely satisfactory answer or an
open break must follow at tho end of
that time. The negotiations may con
firm':. President Alone knows.
Hut Germany's pledges given
the sinking of the Arabic,
I uith an asmmption uf liubi!
th lives of neutrals lost on
Wile
al'i or
, i ( ouplci
I My for
IIOISE.
appropriation
LADY RALPH PAGET
GETS HONOR MEDAL
ciaicu me Aineinun people did not j,,g, according to t he sea mu n at count ,
wish to see the American flag ove,- theh,. stopped by two German tor-'
islands Hauled down. !,,0(() ,,.,,,, mJ ,;,.,, rM, , r.s ex-
I ins action is an unjos'.irialde sur- ,,,in,i w.r tm ihtm and ordered Hie
of American rights.' he said, i An, .mi., t itI, .rti.ii, r v. ,. ih..
"If these islands I ecomo anarchistic ' irprd,, boats st4 amlng a long with Iut 1 1"' l.usliania, will satisfy tho I'nitcd
and the people get to waning among t see that their orders wire obeyed. (Stales remains for the development;
themselves you will be blamed for it,1 .,ut to hours later u third tor- ,of Iho next few day. President Wil
as Noil ought to be. It' other countries' ,,edo boat appeared from which, ac sou probably us the only man who
go to war over them, it will date from Icordmg to the narrator, came the or- knout
Ihe day when you cowards iibundon a der "steer for Zcebrtigge." The cap-1 The American government in n re
tai,k which Providence placed In yourtaln of the Artemis replied that be did:1'!!! communication to all the belllffer
liaiids und which, by this act, you urdiiol know the course. "Drop anchor; i cuts openly recognized the submarlno
in know ledgiiig jou arc unable to mas-iyou line five minutes to h ave the ! as " fat tor which has brought ubout
l,'r iship," was tbo reply, the siainau de.Jn great change in naval warfare and
Senator Stone, replying, character-jdm eH. :hi'ii demand , recovmtion in iuterna-
i
In-fore mili-
t.,. ..... ... ' . . . i
j uinuiittw, and Keur Admiral
r,lle, before iiHval committee, lesti
,,ed on national defense problems.
uiourned at 4:;3 p. m. to noon,
"tlil'day.
Ilaiii-h
iAjlidoii, Fib.
ed by censor. )
Arnold Maersk,
cake und
Norfolk
Steamer Seized.
. (7:12 p. m..
The Danish steamer
with a cargo of oil
bound from savannah and
for Frederirkshaven, has
been taken into Kirkwall.
Cardinal Merrier Has Grippe.
l.-,m,t P-..K J .ri., I,,,.U A. "A
' m.) Cardinal Merrier, primate of
Belgium, who has been in Home for
i more than a fortnight past, has boon
: taken -suddenly ill with the grippe,
delay- i which is now epidemic in the city.
The news having spread throughout
Borne that the cardinal was suffering
from the malady, there hu-s been a
notable demonstration of sympathy
i for him from all clatees,
imr MORNING JOURNAL RRCCIAL LSAllD WIRKJ
New York, Feb. 4. Lady Bulph
Paget, foiiiierb Miss Minnie Slovens
of this city, will be the first to re
ceive the medal of honor awarded by
remarks
, dreamy,
Measure.
curries u
president
lua lie,
ized Senator Smith's
voeiferou". scattering
partisan harangue."
ProGhloiM of
As passed, the bill
the New York City Federation ofjsioii authorizing the
women s t.iuos ior txcoptioiial si re- j Independence is granted to negotiate ; tank
Ice by a woman 'beyond the lines of (treaties needed to adjust ell property!
duty." I rights of citizens of the Cnltod States'
Announcement of her selection f"i jand other countries In the islands audi
to acquire Midi naval hubvu und coal
ing stations within thut territory as
he deemed necessary. The upper
house of tho Filipino legislature
would b enlarged to twenty-four
Before lifeboats could bo lowered
the narrator usmtIs, ufur an interval i
of f"ur minutes, a torpedo crashed j Pr
into Artemis. The crew got a lifeboat ! that
tional law.
(, ci loan Public Opinion.
siilem Wilson Is not insensible
public opinion in Germany u
prod-j ot I' and row d aronii'i fur hours. Then, i elsewhere mnt be considered and
whcn.as tho Artemis wus floating on herthut diplomatic lelulions have regard
they boarded her again. for that important factor. At the
(same time officials dislike the inima-
Iroii unvney In Austria. , lions that have conic from Berlin thai
the honor was made today.
Lady Paget went to the aid or
Htricken Serbian women at tho time
of the occupation of Monastir by the
Bulgarians.
London, Feb. 4 4:I5 p. in.) Ac
cording to a wireless message from
Vienna received here, the treasury of
fice at Vienna has decided to follow
the precedent set by Germany and
emit iron currency for circulation,
the points for which the American
government Is contending arc purely
technical and hair-splitting: and un
necessary of prosecution In view of
Germany's concession of pecuniary
liability for the loss of American Uvea
