HHsssMHili.i.i.i.i.
JjlH
ta HHi
:. glp Cl)c 0on HqniUicmi. ppl! I
EIGHT PAQE8 LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH SATURDAY FEBRUARY 5 1916 '' H
Cl FOURTEENTH YEAR ;'1
SIX PERSONS
, ARE BURIED
SN0WSL1DE
While they woro attempting to re
move debris scattered on the tracks
of tho Orogon Short Lino in Hear
JUvcr canyon, between Cache June-
tion and Wheelon Thursday after,
noon, six Mexicans and Greek sec
tion hands, were buried by n second
slldo which swept down on thorn un
expectedly. .
Four of the section hands were
Tescucd from tho slide, but two re
still mlbsing. It is thought that they
arc burled under tho slide.
An oxtra-crew of fifty men left
Cache Junction Thursday night in
chnrgo of Trainmaster O. R. Smith,
with the purpose of trying to find
the missing men and to remove tho
slide.
'Latest reports stato that tho two
missing men havo been found, one
was killed and tho other one Is In a
had condition. They woro taken to
Salt Lake. .,
U. A. C. ALUMNI
MAKE RESOLUTION
Whereas tho word has come to tho
Alumni Association that President
Wldtsoo is about to sover his connec-
tlon with the Agricultural College,
and whereas more than threo fourths
of tho members of tho Alumni Asso
elation havo received their, degrees
I durlngt ho period of his presidency,
H and since many of the older mombor's
H came under his influence during the
H time ho wag a teacher, tho assocla-
H tion wishes to present this resolution
ft of appreciation of tho help, encour-
m agement, and inspiration received
lMm from him during Jils, yearn -of serv-
m ice at tho school.
B Wo havo developed a high regard
H for his scholarship and genius and
H for his sympathetic interest in every
B student of the, school. His person-
H al InQuenco has been an Important
H factor In tho growth and develop-
H ment of tho college and bo cultlvat-
H ed an interest in Industrial educa-
tion. Peaceful and harmonious re.a
H tions havo existed between the as
H Boclatlon and tho school during tho
B jntlro period i of his administration.
We regret that President Wldtsoo
I Is leaving the institution, but wo And
H consolation in the fact that he will
H continue his educational work In
H Utah.
Wo wish him the samo success in
H our sister Institution that ho has
H achieved hero..
U. A. C. ALMUNI ASSOCIATION.
HI
I THE KIMBALL
I AUTO COMPANY
H The Kimball Auto Company are
Hj among tho first when It comes to pro-
H grcsslvencss, Ono year ago this
H company had a building put up
C0xl50 feet, thinking this was largo
enough to handle the business hat
H would como to them. Thoy are now
H Ugurlng on an addition to tho roar
H E0x50 which will glvo them a' garago
Hj second to nono In tho stato,
Hj In connection with' this thoy havo
Hj Installed one of tho finest vulcantz-
Hj Ing outfits in the state and ha,ve cm-
H ployed Mr. E. A. Mlddleton to tako
chargo. Mr. Mlddloton Is direct from
H the Afron, Ohio. Rubber factories,
H having spent 1C years at the trado,
Hj Ills work speaks for itself nearly nil
H auto owners having tried him last
(t yenri
(H Crowded to. tho doors every minute
H with automobllos and flhop work noo-
H esattatcs this; addition on their ol-
ready largo garago.
In addltlonVto this thoy havo built
Hj a flno salesroom In front whoro tho
H Chalmers, Oakland and Chevrolet
H cars are on display.
HJ Hay Miller gavo a sleigh riding par-
Hj ty jaBt Saturday evening nd tho fol-
J lowing guests j, woro Invltpd: Ooprgo
HJ Prodsham, UIJa Morrill, Bnott Lowe,
HJ Teonle Olsenlorln Haws, I.oln Lowo
HJ ay N. Miller and Clara, Stckdalo.
HHHi
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHlMHtMBaMpMM
GREAT SNOW
BANKS OVER
0N DIVIDE
P. D. Kline, general manager of
the Ogden, Logan & Idaho Hallway
Company was! n Logan Thursday
Mr. Kllno was asked regardlngt ho
matter of protecting tho track over
the divide between Mendon and Col
llnctbn for tho future, and he stated
that this snow storm has been
great cxperlcnco for tho officials of
tho company and that thoy now know
just what to do for another year, and
that equipment will bo purchased
such as snow plows and Bnow fight
ing apparatus' and that In places
where tho drifting has given so much
trouble, high fences will bo built to
protect tho track from futuro occur
rcnces similar to tho ono of tho past
two weeks.
Mr. Kline states that the snow has
had to. bo shoveled from tho track
for a distance of about twclvo miles
and that about 00 men have been
employed to do this work. Great
banks of snow as high as the elec
tric cars are piled along the track
practically all the wny from Mendon
to Colllnston.
RICHMOND MEN
BOOSTING BIG
AUCTION SALE
Frank G.. 'Robinson and Earl Hob
lnsori, both prominent dairymen of
Richmond were In .Logan this week
to attend tho Roundup and the Dairy
men's Convention at tho Agricultural
College. While horo these gentlemen
were boosting for the White and
Black Day, which is to bo held at
Richmond on .March. 17. . , .,
These gdntlemen say that already
a great many inquiries have been
had with reference to tho number ct
cattlo that wll bo auctioned off on
that day. They say that If they arc
able to get BUfllclent cnttlo to be put
up for salo, that there will bo a great
many buyers In from outside dis
TWELVE ROUND
EXHIBITION
A GOOD GO
Tho boxing exhibition Thursday
evening between Charllo Mldklff and
Tommy Crawford of Salt Loko, drow
n full houso, there being scarcely
standing, room for those who wished
to see these two clover boxers slug
away for twclvo rounds, finishing In
a draw decision rendered by Rofcroo
Bert Danford.
This was a clean fight from tho
start, Tommy had a llttlo tho best
of tho milling at range fighting, but
what Charllo lacked In tho distances
ho mado up for In tho close In slug
ging. No ono hesitated to say thoy had
their full monoy's worth and we bo
llovo these exhibitions will becomo
qulto popular In' Logan if tho fako
stuff Is eliminated and good clean ex
hibitions aro staged whoro tho par
ticipating parties aro evenly match
ed as in tho main event on Thursday
night.
Skinner Lowe wen a decision over
Art Jenkins with a K. O. In tho
fourth round. A draw was the out
come of tho four round bout betwonn
Dahlo nnd Nolson. Wily Hamp rof
ereod tho preliminaries.
TWO LEPERS ESCAPE
FROM ISOLATION HOSPITAL
Los Angeles, Feb. 4. Two lepers
Petro Carro and M. Gultoras, escap
ed early today from tho Los Angolos
county Isolation hospital after se
verely beating two truHteos, also lep
ers who woro on guard. Sheriff J.
C. CUno detailed a posso of depu
tes to soarch for the raon and also
telephoned to tho authorities in tho
nearby towns to keep a lookout for
them.
REIGN OF FRANCIS JOSEPH ACTUALLY
LONGEST IN RECORDED HISTORY
MHHHHHJHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHJHHTT $ IP..ILI-1L"'"
HHr vt S ' W .. s
HIHVJl 'lmJKItfSiStttMSfSsHt KNv'V.
1 EMPEROR. FRANCIS JOSEPH
Francis Joseph I., emperor of Austria, npostollc king of Hungary, king of Bo-
hernia, of Croatia, otGallcln. eta, wan barn Auk. 18, 1S30, and nscondod the throne
Dec. 2, 1848, In succession to his uncle. Emperor Ferdinand I., who abdicated on
that date. Ills rehrri of sixty-seven years 4t one of the lontcest In history, being
exceeded only, It Is believed, by that of Lotils XIV. of France, who sat on the
throno seVenty-two years. But Louis wnsi child of nvo when he ascended the
throne, whereas Francis Joseph had attained tho comparatively mature age of
. eighteen, so In reality Francis Joseph' has had the longest actual reign. Tho heir
I to his throne Is Charles Francis, Joseph, nephew of the murdored Archduke
l Francis Ferdinand, who was the nephowqf fronds-Joseph.! . l
CLUB DINNER AN AFFAIR
LONG TO BE REMEMBERED
Wesley King of Salt Lake Gave an
Interesting and Instructive Talk on
Problems of Community Life.
Considering tho weather conditions
nnd other events, the Commercial
Club dinner given at tho Hotel Logan
Cafe Wed. Feb. 2nd was woli attend,
ed. Thoso who woro not there mis
sed n good treat In many ways.
Wesley King, Vlco-Presldent of tho
Salt Lako Commercial Club, the prin
cipal speaker, left many valuablo
thoughts with thoso presont which
will result In much good. In part
Mr. King said: Organization and
proper use of time aro tho important
things. If wo prosper and succeed
as a community, state or nation wo
must bo organized. Because of no
organization, mobs got nowhere, with
organization, nrmlos got ovorywhoro.
Ducks and geeeo fly In a body, thoy
aro organized. Wo should bo us
wiso as thoy. Thoy get somowhero.
Onco a gentleman wont to visit an
asylum and ho saw an ovorsecr with
eight husky Inmates of tho Institution
working in a garden. Tho ovorscor
was unarmed. Tho visitor asked tho
ovorseer how ho dared to 'work' with
tho eight lnsano pcoplo without bolng
armed. Tho ovorseer replied that
tho eight men wcro crazy, could not
get together, and were not organized
and therefore could not harm him. If
wo aro not organized wo aro crazy.
If we aro orgonlzed there aro no
probjoms too bis.
Wo' havo an A, D, and 0, in ovory
community. A represents a ,man In
business who knocks and says bad
things about his competitor. D Is
the competitor who knocks nnd Bays
bad things about A. C is tho would
bo purchaser who has to stand and
listen to A and B knock each othor.
If A and B. would uso thls.tlrao In
building up their own business In
stead of. tearing down each other's
business thoy would bo many dollars
ahead and C would lose no time:
Tho samo instances. Logan . Is A. and
sorao of the towns) in the!; valley aro
II. This should not exist hut tho
Club should work for tho county as a
wholo and not for Logan alono. Tho
county and Logan should work as a
unit. Thero should bo no A's and
H's.
Tho old adago, "mind your own
business" Is not sulllclent ns wo
should all hoVp to mind tho commun
ity's business. A citizen who Just
minds his own business and does
nothing olso should have a wall built
around him as ho Is a clog in tho
wheol of progress in tho town.
Wo should havo good roads days,
c'tonn-up days, and palnt-up days. Of
nil tho states In the Union, Utah Is
tho most lacking In having Its out
luillrllnpn rmlntpil
Pays to Advertise
Ono of tho greatest mistakes wo
are making In this county Is that we
do not ndvertlso enough. Wo do not
tell pcoplo in other states and coun
tries what wo havo. Many outsldo
of tho county know moro what wo
havo than wo do. Every dollar used
for advertising and spent judiciously
will como back many fold. Peoplo(
In tho oast and mlddlo west do not
know what wo havo. When thoy)
como to Utah It Is to boo tho re
sources and real things that would
causo them tho deslro to sottlo hero.
God gives us tho wonderful resources
but it Is' up1 to us to dovolop them.
To do so ,wo must bavo pcoplo, to get
tho peoplo horo wo must let them
know what wo have. Wo need now
blood and' now Ideas. j
Thoso presont woro thrilled wlth
the solos sang by Mr. B. B. Parkin-1
son. Den's voice has by no means
lost any of its power and its doep
resonance was beautiful, Tho musi
cal selections by Mr. William Potor
son were enjoyed.
Mr. J. ,E. Shepard very ably fill-'
ed tho position or toastmaster. Tho
dinner .wao'dellclouaunif well served,
TO THE CACHE
COUNTUARMERS
It may bo of Interost to the tn
tm.UTs of Cncho county, especially
tho farmers to know that an uncalled
for agitation has been aroused re
garding tho valuation of fnrm lands
In Cache county nnd has nssuined so
important an aspect that Messrs
Ualloy, Watson and Oahbott of tho
Statu Board of Initialization, callod
upon County Assessor Woodward
yesterday Btatlng that It had come
to tho attention of tho governor thru
representations to him by a member
of tho board of county commission
ers that land values woro too low In
Cncho and tho board concluded to
como up and urge Mr. Woodward to
rnlso values upon tho best land to
$250 per ncro. Mr. Woodward pro
tested that such a valuo was out of
reason, whereupon ho was threatened
with suit on his bonds.
Commissioner Hell wns alono with
tho gentlemen from Salt Lako yes
terday, Mr. Pacer and Mr. Horgeson
not being nblo to bo present, and he
took a strong slnnd In favor of tho
rnlso.
Mr. Woodward feels resentful nt
tho agitators of this mutter, ns ho Is
trying to do' his duty In fairness to
all. JOHN n. WOODWARD.
B.Y.C.VS.
U. A. JJJONIGHT
Tonight In tho IJ. Y. gymnasium
will bo played ono of tho greatest
basketball' games over staged in Io
gan. Tho first gamo between the lo
cal schools Is usually conceded to tho
H. Y. C. because tho church school
docs not play football and henco com
menco basketball sooner than tho Ag
gies. This yenr, howovcr, this is not
true, becauso beforo holidays Coach
Jenson spent his tlmo coaching tho
high school toam. That places, tho
two teams moro on a piano of equal
ity than over before.
Tho rivalry undoubtedly win run
high, as It usually docs when thoso
local schools moot for basketball con
tests. A largo crowd la expected out
tonight. Tho result of gamo Is of
courso very uncertain as both teams
are really unknown quantities.
LOCAL DOCTORS
GO EAST TO GET
KNOWLEDGE
Dr. D. C. Dudgo and Dr. II. A.
Adamson of Hlchmond, loft Thursday
morning for Chicago whoro thoy wont
to attend tho American Medical Con
gross on medical education, which
common'ces February 7.
While away, Dr. Adamson will
spend somo tlmo in Chicago in tho
study of Internal' medicines nnd Gen
eral practice Dr. Uudgo will visit at
Cleveland nnd Itochester as well as
at Chicago, consuming about six
wooks on tho trip. While away ho
, Intends to brush up on surgery nnd
will spend somo tlmo In study with
tho Mayo Brothers at Ilochestor, Now
York.
TO THE POBLIC
A CORRECTION
I havo been asked many times of
lato, ."If I had quit tho general prao
tlco of modlclno and surgery?" To
correct this rumor I think It my du
ty to my friends and ol'd patronB to
stato, that I am stilt doing a OWNER
AL PRACTICE. It's true that I havo
given special attontlon to SURGERY,
EYE, EAR, NOSE and THROAT
work, but ns conditions are, horo, wo
alt treat "tho head, trunk, and ox'
tromltcs," and Io xpoct to glvo my
patients tho advantago pf my thirty-
two years experience and tho best
J that Is In mo, I HOPE, for a good
many yenrs to como.
WA. D. FMIKTNSON, M. D.
Adv. 2-5
Tho noxt club dlnnor will beheld
March 1. Tho commlttoo Is deter
mined that at least ono hundred shall
be' present.
NEWS FROM I
M ROUND-UP
Thursday morning, Mr. Fred W. hi
Merrill tn'kr-1. !i tho women on the (J
Importance of tho milk question, lie ,
started out by saying we cannot do '' H
without milk. Ho said thero were )', , H
threo reasons why milk is dnimerou .y ' H
to the health: First by tho unsatls- i,
factory methods of production; two, f
by Its (llinculttcs of keeping clean; j '
three, that It decompose readily. )'
Ho also stated that milk producers ' H
do not understand the plcnsuro of ! , PH
sanitation, but think moro of tho ' :k
money than sanitation. Ho says t ; H
that milk easily hides bacteria and ' ' H
filth whllo Water does not, becauso ) , j J
it Is transparent. In order to get H
clean milk, tho cow muBt bo In per- I H
feet health, must be kept In healthy i ' H
and sanitary quarters, and tho milk- , j H
er should wear clean clothing. Aft- I H
or being drawn It should bo clearl- ' , H
fled and put Into sterilized bottles, ;' H
heated to 145 degrees then cooled ; ;,.' JH
quickly to 45 degrees nml properly i'I
iced nnd dollvcrcd. to consumer. 'H
Trusteo John C. Sharp talked to iv
tho farmers for tho vocation and , ( H
commended highly tho work being H
done by tho collcgo, U PPJ
Ex-Governor J. C. Cutler, talked t; M
on fnrm saving. Ho said that savings ( ; M
on tho fnrm do not only mean Just ' j' H
having a llttlo money' left at the end I 'H
of tho year, but Includes health and i j H
comfort of tho family and live stock , y M
nnd tho saving of labor. Fanners ' jj M
should not mortgngo their farms fof I H
an automobile, which produces ony ,. JH
plcnsuro but Bhould got crcdltfor , JH
producing purposes. Ho ndv1sesjtho.' 'l-ll
fnrmcrs to uso parcel post In market- M
ing products nnd do nway with ho W
middlemen. Thoy should organlwT ! ll'.IH
nnd market uniform products In, big j ,1 j
quantities and demand higher prices. T'lsisl
Savlnp on tho farm Is the samo on nlH
any othor place and must bo dono , .' ;;f
by spending less than you make; ; , 'EH
Mr. William F. Long Is reporting 'f jH
tho Amorlcan Cement 'Manufacturers j ' ; H
Association. Ho talked of the con- H
crcto and its ubcs on tho farm. Tho , :H
advantages of concrete as a porma- . i! H
nent construction for feeding floors ,' " ?,
and silos pits and garages and etc. j ; '
Ho talked on sllago and its ndvan- "j; H .H
tages. ' :' H
Dr. W. E. Carrol talked on 'feed- ,l' 1 ,:H
Ing cows. Ho snld that tho "ra- ivijk !H
tion for dairy cows should bo adapt- IV.,) ;.H
ed to tho species and must h'avo'Htio fv , X
proper proportions of roughago con- ; il'ijl
contrato and palatable feed. Tho'ra- ll'JI
tions should bo considered by tho I1 , .-'H
prices of feed nnd should conform to j j ', jiH
tho typo of Bystem of farmlng.v : j: H
Miss Anna Barrows gavo a demon- J j l fl
stratlon of preparation of, TarloUs ;j ( KH
dishes. Sho prepared and discussed li'i 1(11
tho preparations or breakfast, lunch- I i'lil
eon nnd dlnnor and encouraged care- li'til
ful planning of meals so that left 'or- jtift
era can bo used. Tho thomo of hor H'fiH
talk was to show that a few dlshos H''ti
woll prepared aro better than many ',! 'J M
poorly prepared dishes. Sho show- H ! M
od how ono or two slraplo foods can ijjj H
bo usod In many combinations by a ' l
careful preparation. 'M
Utah Dairymen's Association held is'i-H
their first annual banquet at Mur- . I ',M
dock's Wednesday night. After tho 3 J, ,'H
banquet thoy hold araetlng nt which S .1 j M
William C. Winder of SaU Lako City Iftf-H
talked on sllago as a Utah feed. F. J. iH
W. Morrill talked on silos and silage. jj ;
Tho folowlng oillcers woro olectcd: Vff B'H
President, W. C. Winder; vice presl- M ' H
dent, Pnrloy Nelson of Richmond; Jtt ij.H
and Goorgo B. Calno, socretary and Wb f'H
treasurer. Assessments wera mado mm 'ifl
to cover all expenses and a cam- Jfl W S
palgn was planned to got all dairy- ty 'llil
men of tho stnto Into the organlza- fc !T'S
tion. ft? ijf
On Friday afternoon Prof. John T. j !
Calno gavo an Illustrated lecture on M jlftH
tho bcot question. Ho discussed tho M.U
decrease of productions of beof cat- J jtjnfl
tlo causes high prices of meat. Ho A l
pointed out to tho farmers a good lo- El
cation of tho valuablo cuts. j i H
Mr.. S. F. Jonscn of Ogden Pack- j H
Ing and Provision Company talked on ffll j
tho meat packing industry. Ho nd- , MU
vised tho farmers to uso tho advices H i f H
of tho collogo men In producing bet- f '!
tor live stock. Ho said that the tunc- l
tlon of tho packing business was to i oj j
dlstrlbuto meat from tho producor ?j PI
to tho consumer. Ho hrought out Afc III
the uso of tho byproducts. Ttlkod HH fill
of tho futuro of tho Industry infttho Ml SI
'rocky mountain region. OgQen'si.lo- Wm' MM
cation la ideal for a packing houso V$
and bo oxpects to make It aAjlmp'or- H HI
(Coatlnied cm Page EUt) - !9V
m
