The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV ST. FRANCISVILLI. WEST PSLICIANA PARISH, LOUISIANA, SATURDAY, PFURUARY L , 1f14 NUMI|R I
I - I IL • ··L g - 1 I ·· I -- I- p -r~ - 'r· e YT I tlll • II- I "111 II m a El 'I pr I
it's come--
The Ford Tractor
A Farm Necessity
Come to my store and see this wonderful
machine demonstrated,
PRICEI--40, FULLY EQUIPPEO, F. 0. O. FACTORY.
CHEAPER THAN TWO MULES.
Chas. Weydert
------ --- -------- ---------- --- ----- - --
Live Well During 1916.
You can live both well and cheaply if you
get the habit of buying your groceries and
delicacies at this store. Our stock comprise
the choicest of the market in every line,
and our prices are backed up by value.
GEO. RETTIG
------ --- ---- --- I ~ 1----
TEST YOUR OWN EYES
With this M A C H I N E EYE
TESTER (patent applied tor),
which has a complete assortment
of all the different strength
lenses mounted in a revolving
wheel, you can, by actual trial
, yourself, select a pair of reading
glasses that will give you perfect
comfort and satisfaction.
We can furnish any style frame
you may select, at low prices.
You need a pair of glasses now.
Come in at once and let us de
ei nonstrate this new practical
Machine Eye Tester.
ACwrnBmrat Tva~ ,Muyrford's Royal Pharmacy
aM*a ,llrEI5 IT. FRANCIIVILLE. LA
WOODLAWN FARM
J. BI. MlcGEIIEE (1836-1913)
We stand upon the threshold of a new yearm, to bring,
we trust, harder work than ever with its attendant mauling.
lut thus eompelling our faithful fields to unlock their stores
to us and to those dependent, to furnish cheer for the guesmt
within our gates and help for our less fortunate brother, we
shall find as always the complete satisfaction that CUEATION
ls perfect and EAITH an admirable home.
Our best wishes to every sentient beingI
SUCCEsS LiEs IN MUTUAL S8RVICE.
J. 8. McGEHEE - - - - Laurel Hill, La.
COAL! COAL!
When in need of Coal
that will burn, ring
Telephone No. 1.
Prompt delivery.
Bayou Sara Ice &
Coal Works.
RAILROAD SIDE OF
MAIL CONTROVERSY
Shreveport, La., Jan. 24, 1911.
The True Democrat: In reply to
your Inquiry with reference to the
wall situation. I will state that ln as
much as the Post Omce Department
has given out an interview on this
sutbject. I can see no impropriety I,
giving you the facts and am pleased
with lhe opportunity of doing so.
The compensation allowed by Con
gre.a based as it Is upon the business
handled by the roads through most
densely populated sections of the coun.
try, does not afford suffcient remunera
tion to roads In a sparcely settled ter
ritory to cover the cost of the service.
The question of rate of pay however
is not Involved in the matter at this
time.
There are two rates of pay provided
by Congress, one to the roads who
have enjoyed special privileges from
the Government in the way of land
grants, and the regular pay. The land
grant roads receive smaller remauera
tion than the regular scale.
It is the practice of the Goverament
to aeigh the malls once every four
years for a period of ninety days. And
on the basis of the weight thus obtain
ed rate of pay for the ensuing four
years is arbitrarily fixed and remains
at such figure regardless of the added
service required on the part of the
railroad.
Although we had been handling the
through mail between Shreveport and
New Orleans for quite a period the
Department removed this mail to an
other line prior to the mail weighing
period, presumably for the purpose of
transporting it over a cheaper route
during the weighnlg period. If that
was not the purpose the effect has
been the same.
It was assumed that this mail would
be returned to our line after tt had
been weighed on aaother route and
the effect would have been that an.
other line would have drawn pay for
four years without performing the
service and that this Company would
have been required to perform that
service for the perod without at.
rumpeneation whatever. That our 0*.
pectatlons were well grounded is borne
out by the fact that the Department
has since placed a mail clerk on our
night trains between Shreveport and
Alexandria, from which potat to New
Orleans we are required to handle a
large quantity of mail in leooed
pouches, thus plaoing the additional
burden of the care and handling of
such mail on our regular train em
ployees.
Regular distance ciroular properly
certified to by our Chief 3rlWaeer was
flied with the Department at the regu
lar time, but that portion of it which
constitutes a contract to do whatever
the Post OBoe Department, or any
minor olfelal thereof, may require of
us regardless of servlce or cost of
eame, was not signed. It is therefore
not a faet that this Complany failed to
file it. distance circular, am the only
portion that was not completeyl lled
out is a silgnature to the clase readingl
as follows: "The Company nanted be
low aarees to accept and perform mail
service upon the eondltlons presrbrted
by la and the regulitlons of the De
Iartmnent applicable to railroad mail
service."
eelingI as we did that full compaasn
sation for the service performed would
have been insulffitcient compensation.
we were not inclined to lecept the
proposition knowing that for a large
part of the service which we would be
relquired to perform some other ranl
road would be drawlng the pay there.
for. and we notlfed the Department
some time before the expiration of the
old contrsact that unless we received
notice of the compensautioo we were to
r(.elve for the next ensulang four years
prior to the expiration of the contract
then in effect service must be die
continued on our line eectlive June lb,
1914, at which time the contrat ox
pired.
It Is the practice of the Department
to reqlulre the railroads to blindly siln
the contract above quoted to the es
pyirtion of the previous contreet and
make no report to the railroads of the
amount of c~mpensation It intends to
allow until about three months after
the new contract has been ila effect.
and we were advised by the Depart.
meat that the information could not
be given us.
We therefore fully eutpected Lthat
servIce would be diLcotatinued on June
30, 1i14. The Department, however,
found that they could, through some
method, ascertain this amount, whiDb
proves in itself that they had our dise
tance etrcuisr on 1e, and uader date
of Jusne M, wired us the manta that
would be allowed us according to the
weights which had been recently ob
tained.
In the absence of the President and
owner of this railroad, the Vice Presi
dent thereupon extended to the Depart.
ment the use of the line for one month
or until July 31. 1914, stating that they
would be advised what action would
be taken prior to that time.
On July 14, 1914, the Department
was advised that this road would not
enter Into a tour years' contract for
harrying the mails on the usual basal,
bet reogAnittin the disadvantage it
would be to the communities through
which we pass and desirinag to avoid
oetuplicating the business situation of
such communitiee or inconveniencing
the patrons of our line, we would, even
theMgh the compenaation was inade.
quite, continue to carry the malls at
the rate of pay fxed by the Govern.
meat in Its telegram of June 3I. as
long as conditions were substantially
the same as to service and equipment
required as were in effect during the
weighing period when such compensa
tion was Axed.
Under date of July 18. Mr. Joseph
Stewart, Second Assistant Postmaster
(Jeneral, accepted this propoit ion.
These two lettere in our opinion con.
stituted a contract between us and the
Government. the terms of which were
explicit. Our offer was accepted in his
letter of July 18, and from the further
fact that the Department has continued
to use our line for Its mail service
under no authority whatever except
the proposition of June 14.
At the usual time tof payment no
remittance was made and since that
time the Department has refused to
pay for any service performed since
July 1., 1914. for the reason that they
do not have on fle our agreement to
perform mail service upon conditions
prescribed "By the regulations of the
department applicable to railroad mail
service." it cannot be that it is with
held on account of our failure to sign
that portion which agrees to accept
and perform mail service upon condi
tions prescribed by law, because our
oropostilon of July 14, 1914, was based
on our willingness to accept the pay
'ment as prescribed by law even though
we were aware that certain alil would
be returned to our line for which other
linaes would be drawing pay.
I note the Post Of()ftce Department,
in the TimesoPicayune interview, takes
exception to the equipment and stater
that our Company has refused to make
repairs.
This statement is misleading. The
equipment was in the condition re
quired by the Department during the
weighing period. Since that time some
member of the Department has con.
csived the ides that it would be better
to change the location of the interior
appliances from that in effect during
all times previous. and without regard
to cost to the railroads, has issued
arbitrary orders that such changes
should be mdde, presumably under
their authority which requires ratll
rwads to "Perfortm service upon condi
tios presertihed by regulation of the
l)epartment appliable to mail service "
This Company has not rehfused, how
ever, to comply with these arbitrary
orders., but has only stated to the
Government that we were withoutt
funds to Invest is these Lmprovements
Ibt that if they would pay us what wasi
rightfully due us for services which
we have performed .we would make
the changes suggested.
You will. therefore, see that there is
no question involved in this case at aiil
except the withholding from us of the
compensation which the G(overnment
agreed to pay for services which they
have given us to perform and which
we have performed.
We are asking nothing from the
Government except that we be paid
what is due us In the way of oompenssa
tlon fixed by law,
We are asking for no additional
compensation at this time, although
we are performing additional service.
We are not asking at this time that we
be relieved of rearrangn a the postal
oars, but that we be e paid first what is
due ta for past services.
The i,. R. A N. ('ompany has no
desire whatever to discontinue hand.
ling the mail, although we realise we
are handling it at a loss. but we do
feel that we should not longer be ex
peeled, and we do not believe that any
reasonable person would expect us to
continue handling the mail without
reCeivlng the legal compensation which
the Government has agreedq to pay by
aeepting nor proposition of July 14.
1914. and by its continuing the service
nn our line. We have felt, however,
that the Interest of the communitilles
through which we pass would require
us to make every reasonable effort
possible in their behalf and with this
in view, before giving any notice of a
tliscontinuation of the service, we have
referred the matter to our Congre
tional delegation and we trust they
will be able to induce the Government
to make payment of the amount which
THE TRUE DEMOCRAT TO CELEBRATE SILER
ANNIVERSARY BY PUBLISHING BI EDITION
On Peb. 3, 1917, nothing unforeeeen
occurring In the meantime, The True
[.mocrat will celebrate Its twenty
Afth anniversary.
Twentyfive years of continuous pub
llcation Is a record of which to be
proud, especially In Louisiana where
It is easy to start a newspaper and
hard to make one so.
The True Democrat to pardonably
proud of its achievements in the news
paper field and is preparing to celebrate
the tKenty.fitth anniversary by pub.
Itshing a silver Jubilee Edition, on or
about February 3. 1917.
Thlp tllver Jpbllee ISdltion is ox
pe~ced to be of great Interest not alone
to the people who live in West rPe
lictana parish now, but to people who
have lived here in the past and to
those who may expect to live here in
the future. It is Intended to show in
detail the Industrial and social condt.
tlions and to portray the wonderful
possibilities which the future has in
store for this section of the State.
The reason for makin this early
antnouneement of this Silver Jubilee
sl I i l lm im llll '', ..... r ' ... - M I 
tIdltion is to make our readers fanmiliar
with the project in order that 't; maty
secure their hearty coperation. at the
proper time. Also that they may have
opportunity to kecp an accurate ac.
count of all record crops and animaln
which they may raise during the inter.
vening year. And again, that they
may have ample time to secuure photo.
graphs of tbemielvrs themthir homes, and
Sscenes which should be reproduced in
an edition of this character.
It is the desire of the publishers to
make this edition the most elaborate
of any ever published In Loulsians,
outside the large cities. They have
the facilities for doing this work right
at hornm, and have had considerable exz
perience in producing first-class print
nlg. A considerable sunr of money will
be spent for illustrations alone.
It is hoped to observe the eternal
ftness of things in producling this
Silver Jubilee Edition, and in doing so
considerable emphasis must be put on
the Silver part.
Other announcements concerning this
edition will be made from time to time
during the intervening year.
NOW OPEN---OUR 1916
CHRISTMAS SAVINGS CLUB
You uav for 49 weeks.
Below we show exactly the amount you pay la during the 43 weeks:
Class- 1225
either lseconding or dseeending ................... 225
c Class- 2450
either ascending of descendingl ................. V
Sc Class-- 1 50
either ascending or descending ...................... I
e Clas- $122 50s
either asel nding or doscending........
Or you can deposit the same amount each week for 49 weeks
and accumulate as follows:
25c each week ............................. 12.25
50c each week. ........................... $ 24.50
$1.00 each week ........................ $ 49.00
$2.00 each week ...................... ...... $ 98.00
$2.50 each week ............................122.50
and we add to these amounts 31, , per annum interest.
WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN.
THE BANK OF BATON ROUGE
THE MILLION IDOLLAR BANK
AUCTION SALE OF
REGISTERED SWINE
The first annual consignment auetole
nile of registered bogs, under the
:unpilces of the Louisiana Swine Breed
. rt' Association, will be baheld in con.
,nectlio with the Winter Short Coursae
This sale will be held on the Baton
1lo ouge fair grounds Saturday, lPebru.
try 6, There will be between eighty
ad one hundred head of hogs offered,
r.unul ting of DurooeJerseys, Poland
('hin.s, Berkshires and Hampshire.
I'hay w ill be consigned by the leading
breed,-rs of the State and will all be
good idlividuals. It is the intention
of the twine Breeders' Assuelation to
make this sale sa annual event during
he short course. Its object Is to give
farimers attendlng the short coursn
i1n oplii'ortunity to purehse Anrst.class
breeding stock.
LIST OF TIMELY AND AVAILAILI
SULLETINS EXPERIMENT
STATIONS, L. L U.
No, '4$8,HlomtOrown vs. Purchased
Seed.
No. 6, Pecans.
No. 84. Texas Fever.
No. l5, Black Leg.
No. 93, Second Report Upon the Hores
Ales of Lotislana.
No. 109. Experiments with Bacterium
Anthracis, Anthrax Vaccines
and lyperlmmunalatlon.
No. 110,'omarirton Cotton Seed Meal
and Hulls with Cold Pressed
Cake as a Dairy Feed.
No. It, Rotation Bsperiments withO ot.
ton, Corn, Cow Peas and Oats,
No. 130, l,,espedea or Japan Clover.
No. 133, A Simple, Effective and Iner.
pensive Method of Treating
Arsenical Dipping Solution Be
fore Emptylng Vat for Ceallk
ing.
No 134, Carrion Feederse a Dtisemal
nators of Anthrax or Charbon.
No. 140. Preliminary Report on Winter
Cauliflower.
No. 143. Shoes and neslatge.
No. 148, Stock eedingl.
No. 161, Cattle Fsreding on the Phater
lion and ar(tm
No. 1612 Anthrax or Charben.
No. 14., Protectlng Cabbage and Cavil
flower from Attacks by Worms.
CIR CUl.ARI1.
No. 1. our Soils and Their Treatment.
No. 3, Organisation of Boys' Pig Clubs.
No. 1. "Breeds of Hogs." "The Bset
C'rops to Orow for Hogs."
No, 4. 4oys' and Girls' Poultry Clubs.
No. 5, Have We a Plaee In Our Algrioul
tore for the Dual Purpose Type
of ('attle as Represented by wte
Red Poll and Devon Breeds?
No. 4, Oat, a Louisiana Crop.
No.?. Live Stock Sanitation on Farm.
No. 8, Potato Rcab.
No. 9, Seed Bd Ranitation.
Is rlghtfull), moreally, and. we bPl,,e..
tluilly due us for servinGs liady
performed.
Yours very truly.
Ht. B. HELM, VlePre,
