3eabQr;vdvocte
imtraopil .,
NON-PARTISAN
UNiViFJSITY
FEB 8 id lb Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
:iyefFt
One Dollar a Year
Vol. III. No. 41 , CINCINNATI, OHIO, FEBRUARY
Brewery Workers May Strike
Owing to Expenses Put On Them by Prohibition Fights
Demand for Raise of Wages Refused By Breweries.
At a Joint Conference of Committees Last Tuesday Night, Mass Meetings Were
Called the Brewery Workers Want to Win They Should Eliminate the Hon.
W. F. Hess From the Conferences.
The question of wages between the
Brewery Workers and the breweries are
up for adjustment for the first time
since 1002. The brewery workers feel
that they arc entitled to $3.00 per week
advance owing to the high cost of liv
ing and the amount of money they have
been compelled to subscribe to the fight
against State-wide prohibition.
The brewery workers have organized
and maintained the Labor Home Rule
League and induced organized labor to
support the "wets" in both fights
throughout the State of Ohio. This,
added to the fact that the brewery work
er was compelled to spend his own
money in the saloons in the interest of
home rule, as the brewer does his drink
ing in the clubs, in order to get away
from the rabble that congregate in the
ordinary saloon.
The brewery workers, no doubt, can
expect very little from the Brewers'
Board of Trade as long as they allow
politicians like Wm. F. Hess to repre
sent all the breweries. His job is to
find put what you want, promise it to
yiu and' then se'e"vfifiry-ou,'dt:rit"ycT
it, and the brewery workers would do
well to eliminate him at the very be
ginning and deal direct with the brew
ers. At three mass meetings Wednesday
night in Central Turner Hall members
of unions connected with the Cincinnati
brewing industry voted almost unani
mously against a renewal of the old
wage agreement with the brewers, said
union officials. A higher wage is de
manded. Brewers' Local Union No. 12 first cast
its ballot. Then the Beer Drivers and
Stable Men's Union No. 17.'). Brewery
Laborers and Icehouse Employees'
Union, Branch 1 of No. 17."), and Beer
Bottlers and Drivers' Union No. 109.
A modified agreement to be presented
to employers may be drawn up at a
meeting of the Contract Committee of
the unions during the week, it is said.
The demand again will be discussed at
a meeting of a committee representing
the unions before the employers' com
mittee. Union officials said that in all prob
ability another mass meeting would be
held Friday night to hear a report on
,the outcome of the conference.
The men who voted to strike number
about 1,(500 employees, composed of the
Brewers' Local Union No. 12, Beer
Bottlers and Drivers' Union No. J00,
Beer Drivers and Stablemen's Union No.
17.1 and Brewery Laborers and Icehouse
Employees' Union, Branch 1 of No. 17.1,
will quit work Friday morning.
Since these crafts were on strike in
1002 they have been working under
three-year agreements. Under the last
agreement, which expired Monday, the
Brewers received $18.50 and $10.50 a
week; the beer drivers and stablemen
.$10, $18 and $10; bottlers and bottle
beer drivers $1.1 and brewery laborers
and icehouse employees $1.1.
The unions have presented a new
agreement to the employers, in which
they are asking an increase in wages of
$2 a week for brewers, beer drivers and
stablemen, and brewery laborers and ice
house emploees and a $:i increase for
bottlers and bottle beer drivers.
According to union officials the agree
ment was sent to the employers twice
and ignored. At a mass meeting held
last Sunday a committee consisting of
John Radef. Charles Stalf. John Valer
ius, John llollenbach, Albert Colnot,
William Dupps, Jr., Michael Schwen
inger. William Dietrich and Fred
Grabbe was appointed to seek a confer
ence with the emplojcrs on the new
agreement.
This committee met Tuesday after
noon with a committee representing the
Brewers, composed of Louis J. Hauck,
Fred Broxtcrman. William C. Geiss,
Albert Lackman, J. George Jung and
William F. Hess, Secretary of the
Brewers' Board of Trade, but no de
cision was arrived at.
1 -.JHtlBti
TIIO.S. II.
President of Out
"The employers refused to treat with
us on the new agreement," said Charles
Stalf, Business Representative for the
Beer Drivers' and Bottlers' Unions, last
night. "They are asking for a renewal
of the agreement under the same condi
tions as those in the old one. When we
found the employers would not meet our
demands we immediately took steps for
the calling of the mass meeting for the
purpose of taking a strike vote.
"We arrived at no decision," said Wil
liam F. Hess, Secretary of the Brewers'
Board of Trade, last night. "We made
a proposition to the committee which
they will take back to their unions."
THE RIGHT KIND OF A MAYOR
Says That I'liion Labor Will He Used
on the Xcw Kentucky Hridgc.
Hon. John J. Craig, major of Coving
ton, notified the Laiiok Amocvn: Friday
morning that the Ausonia Bridge Co.,
who have a contract to build a new
bridge over the Licking river, have
agreed to use union labor exclusively,
and liac so notified him.
James Davis, business agent of the
structural iron workers, took this matter
up with the Covington Board of Com
missioners at their meeting last week,
at which time Mayor Craig promised
Mr. Davis that he would see that the
contractor used union labor; and that lie
was .successful in doing so, shows that
Mayor Craig is a real friend of organ
ized labor.
FOrXIHCY WOKKKItK (iAIX.
liellaire, HI, Foundry employes have
raised wages nearly 8 per cent. Manu
facturers first refused to consider an
increase on the ground that wages were
already higher than in competitive dis
tricts. When the employes arranged to
strike, however, the demands were
granted. It is stated that over 200 work
ers are benefited.
MUGAVIX
ml Labor Council.
WINS BY ELEVEN VOTES
I'hoinas II. Mugavin Klected Presi
dent of Central Labor Council.
Thomas H. Mugavin Tuesday night
was elected President of the Central
Labor Council, defeating John J. Daly
by 11 votes. The election was a spirited
one. There were debates as to the right
of several delegates to cast their bal
lots. Following the oting a discussion
arose among delegates, and President
Thomas McManus declared the meeting
to be adjourned.
With the exception of Albert Jones
for trustee and John Alf and Charles
Sullivan, who had no opposition, Mr.
Mugavin was the only candidate indorsed
by the "Regulars" to be elected. The
other winners were backed bj the "Pro
gressives." The result of the election follows :
President, Thomas II. Mugavin; Vice
President, John Alf; Secretary, Wil
liam Prout; Financial Seerctary-Treas-
.. w.t 1r, thrift ti Tnfilmntl fill Wit.
I Charles Sullivan ; Guardian, William
Day; Trustees, William Mclrinder, Al
bert Jones and Januv Sheil.
OKIHOHS KKKIGHT CAIIS.
Philadelphia. The Pennsjlvania rail
road has awarded contracts for 5,000'
steel freight cars at a cost approximate
ly of $0,000,000. The order is divided
between the Cambria Steel Company and
i the Ralston Steel Car Company.
Ll'MUICH KMPLOYKS ItAISK
WAGKS.
Northampton, Mass. Striking em
ployes of the Connecticut Valley Lum
ber Company at Mount Tom have raised
wages 10 cents a day. About 200 work
ers are affected.
5, 1916 One
The BMg Trades
Hold Regular Meeting A
Ohio Federation of Labor Surprises the Members,
and Started a Lively Discussion Routine
Business Transacted.
The Building Trades Council held its (
regular meeting Thursday nicht. Presi
dent Cullcn and Vice-President Fischer
being absent, Frank Tweedy was called
to the chair.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
A communication from the Internation
al Brotherhood of Composition Roofers,
naming Conrad Betzl old and Ben Dal
ton, as delegates from their local to the
Building Trades Council; and the bro
thers being present were duly obligated.
Communication was read from the
Ohio State Federation of Labor, which
brought on quite a discussion, and the
matter was viewed with suspicion by
some of the members. It was finally re
ferred to the Board of Trustees for in
vestigation. The communication reads
as follows :
January 31, 1910.
Mr. Fred Hock, Cincinnati, Ohio:
Dear Sir and Brother At a meeting
of the Executive Board of the Ohio
State Federation of Labor, held in
Cleveland, January 23, there was brought
before the board for its consideration,
the subject of affiliation with the Feder
ation of Building Trades Councils, Car
penters' District Councils, Metal Trades
Councils, etc., as central bodies and the
retaining of such councils as members
of the Federation.
After a very thorough discussion, the
board decided, by vote, that the secretary-treasurer
should notify such coun-
--cils. thai lii tltb judgment of the-Exeeu-
tive Board, the acceptance or retaining
of such councils as members of the Ohio
GOVERNOR STANLEY
May Attend Mr Feast of the Kenton
and Campbell County Trades
and Labor Assembly
Xct Sunday.
II. J. Allington, secretary of the Ken
ton and Campbell County Trades and
Labor Assembly, said Tuesday, Govern
or Stanley may attend the assembly's
annual banquet in Wiedemann raths
keller, Newport, Sunday night. Alling
ton, in Frankfort last week, heard the
coventor's accentance of his invitation,
"provided the legal bodies here have ad
journed in time for me to catch a train."
Much preparation attends the getting
ready for the big festal night, when sev
eral hundred of the assembly will gather
and bear speeches from prominent ora
tors while the banquet is spread.
Mayor A. J. Livingston, of Newport,
will make the opening address, followed
by Mayor John Craig, of Covington.
Commissioners of both cities have been
invited.
Judges Otto Wolff and Frank Tracj,
of Campbell and Kenton Counties Cir
cuit Courts, respectively, will speak. John
Corbin will act as chairman. Allington
will be general chairman, representing
tile entertainment committee, which is
preparing the occasion.
Stephens L. Blakely, Kenton County
Comiuonwealh Attorney; Lawrence J.
Diskiu, Campbell County Commonwealth
Attorney: Senator Stricklett and Helm,
of Kenton and Campbell Counties, re
spectivcK : Representatives Ampler and
Met, o Campbell Coimt, and Price.
Meyers ami Murphy, of Kenton County.
have been invited to attend and speak.
Charles Knight,
Louisville Senator,
will be. the .principal speaker of the even-
ug. The fea w.U he sencd at p. m.
LAIIOK HILLS IXTKOIUVHI).
Trenton. N. J. Asseiublwnan l'elton
has introduced the following bills in the
state legislature: An anti-injunction
bill; a measure regulating advertisement
and solicitation for employes during
strikes by providing that the existence
of a strike must be stated; requiring
that the prevailing rate of wages in any
locality shall be paid to all eniplo)cs on
state, county or local work; requiring
one day's rest in seven for all emplojes;
regulating the employment of coremak
ers in brass and steel foundries, and
fixing the hours of labor for women bj
providing that tliej shall be consecutive
Council
Communication from the
State Federation of Labor, was in con-
travention to the principles and policies
of the American Federation of Labor,
inasmuch as every local union in Ohio
is eligible to membership in the Federa
tion and entitled to representation at the
convention thereof. Representation at
the conventions by local unions through
delegates, building trades councils and
other councils, is contrary to said prin
ciples and policies of the A. F. of L.,
giving as it docs, said trades dual and
triple representation.
The secretary-treasurer was further
instructed to refund all dues paid by
these organizations, beginning with Feb
ruary 1, 101(3. Enclosed jou will find re
funder check for amount of 2.50 paid
for the months of February, March,
April, May, June and July, 101G.
Trusting that our council will urge
upon the local unions represented there
in their duty of being represented di
rectly in the Ohio State Federation of
Labor, I am,
Fraternally yours,
Tiios. J. Do.vnellv,
Sec.-Treas. O. S. F. of L.
It will be noticed that this does not
refer to Central Labor Council, which
also have dual or triple representation
in the Federation in the miscellaneous
trades.
Report of Business Agent Hock was
read and adopted.
All trades reported business fair, and
there-being- no-further 'business t th.
meeting, adjourned to next Thursday
night.
A REAL AMERICAN
A. K. ISurkhardt Gives An Interview
in Xcw York on Preparedness.
A. E. Burkhardt, the local fur mer
chant, in a recent interview in New
York, said :
"Irrespective of all affiliations of birth
and association, I am an American
through and through. I pity all the na
tions at war and hope only for its earl)
cessation. It is my belief it will end
only in a 'draw,' for the Entente allies
cannot conquer the Central Powers, nor
can the Teutons conquer the. allies. It
is all a useless expenditure of life and
yet, it will prove the biggest lesson the
world has been taught since the Cru
sades. I am firmly in favor of the idea
of national sentence of Charles C.
Pinckney: 'Millions for defense; not a
cent for tribute.' With preparedness
You remember the famous defense there
can be no tribute, but without it who
can sa what tribute we might have to
paj, not onl in money but in blood.
"I know large property owners and
others in Cincinnati who are against
'preparedness' because it would mean
a raise in their tax levies. With this
tpe of so-called Americans I have no
patience. Good Americans work for
such men at meager wages and make
thei. millions for them. et tliey are
unwilling to pay a slight advance in
taxes to protect the men who made it
possible for them to have an thing
taxable.
"I wish we bad an old warhorse like
former Senator Foraker as an advi-
or in e, nner o we -u
I like cholas LoiiRWortli to rt
, our state in he Senate hop
, former Sena or Foraker
sor member of the Cabinet and a man
present
e that
named a
I deK-'B? ? at 'arge to aitem. ii.e ..
j cp, .a. o a on . , -
, , Oftho men o the das of
Lincoln are among the Republican can
didates nominated, wnn such u ciew
the ship of state would never founder
"We also need a navy," concluded
Burkhardt. "to cope with the largest
sea power in the world to hold our
integrity, and a merchant marine that
w ill enable us to keep on growing."
Four raccoon skins donated at the
fur sales esterday for the benefit of
the Jewisli war fund were bid up b
Burkhardt to over $300.
SILYKIS WOKKKKS KX.IOIXH1).
New Haven. Conn. Judge Webb, of
the Superior Court, has issued an in
junction against striking members of the
Meriden and Wallingford Metal Polish-
ers
Unions.
