Dn Next Week's Rfenace fJTfSS&eiS
and convincing addresses of J. I. Shcppard and John L. McNatt, delivered
to the judge and jury at Joplin, Mo., Jan. 14, 1916. No more forceful and
inspiring messages and appeals were ever made upon such an occasion. A
verdict of acquittal followed as a natural sequence. Do not fail to order a
bundle for distribution that your neighbors as well as yourself may read.
S fwq rr- TV tA
This Is Number 2 SO
NAG
fsbrnr t, ttts
iHB mm
H a-i yrS
1
Insinuation off Boycott
ITU a record of infamy and
' al mj yvui imj wnura egaiasi
,y!A her which attends tack is
- " almost unbroken line to the
earliest dajs of ber existence,
Rome fears expoturs and hates
truth, with a viciousaees that is
burdened with cruel venom. Her
desperate effort to throttle free
aprcb. and mauls the press
brine diver wespona aad meth
ods into play. Not the lean of
the infamous weapons used by
Borne to enforce her despotic will
and reduce ths public to a state of
abject subservience to papal
power is the boycott the most
cruel aad deadly weapon that
man can use against a fellow man.
Ia following Anna Ixmry from
town to town with protests and
various forms of persecution, not
excepting prosecution, Rome has
shown ber hatred of free speech
Li her iniquitous intolerance of
truth and publicity most ma
liciously and infamously in the
following "Resolutions of Pro
test" The spirit and intent to boycott
lurks between the lines and waits
with reptilian treachery to strike
at any one who may dare to
ignore her demand. There is no
American spirit expressed, no
loyalty and allegiance to constitu
tional rights, no righteous toler
ance in the following lines which
appeared as an advertisement in
the Ilatavia, N. Y., Daily Ntrt,
January 6:
RESOLUTIONS OF FROTE8T passed
by tt. Peter's i'ederatioa of Catholic
boeietios:
Whereas, a eerUia womaa who par
putts to be sa u iui of ths Catholic
iaith, by same, Anns Lowry, shoe bus
iness U to deliver sa aati-Catbolie lee
tors, ths subject matter of which I noit
effonaiva to all the Catholie people snd
Whereas she U advertised to deliver
her offensive lecture la tbe city of
liataria oa the 10th day of January,
1916 aad
Whereas ths Federated Societies of
ft. Fetor's Bomaa Catholic church is
1 Boy, acting for aad representing; the
entire Catholie population of ths town
f Lo Boy aad
Whereas, suspecting that tail lecturer
or her advance sgents may attempt la
the near future to charter or rent a
ball, shorn bouse or room for the purpose
f delivering her lectors, withia the town
ship of Lo Boy aad let it further bs
Resolved: To delegate four member
from the Executive Hoard of said Cath
olic Federated Societies with instructions
to serve a copy of these rssolutioaa on
all owners, r eaten or lessfei of halli,
showhouees or managers of rooms in
which lertures night bs deUvarod; aad
bs it further
Resolved, that said iwprssentatives be
Instructed to emphatically file protest
ia ths name of ths Catholie people of
Ls Koy against ths renting of any such
hall, ahowhooes or room for ths deliver
lug of such lecture by said Aaaa Lowry
or any other anti-Catholis lecturer of
ber typo; and bo it further
Resolved, that ia ths event of sny
such hail, showhouss or room withia
township of Ls Boy being rented foi
aneh a purpose such actios oa the part
of the owners, renters or leasees will now
sud hereafter bo construed aa direct at
tempt to injurs Catholics aad as aa open
Intuit to every Catholie eitisea of the
tow, of Ls Boy; aad let it further bo
Resolved, for tbs maintenance of peace
and goodiellowship among oar citixeni
and to aid la stamping out all rank
prejudice aad calumny irrespective of
religioa snd for the purpose of per
Slitting every fair minded American
sititea to havs aa equal ehaaco ia dis
paraging ths propaganda of insult of
fered to the 1 millioa loyal Catbolir
eitiatas of this nation, it ia hoped that
ao such lecture or lectures as delivered
by said Abbs Lowry or aay of ber com
patriots bo delivered withia ths eoaflaes
of the township of Ls Boy.
Bigaed by the Executive Board t
RET. P. J, BKBXKST, tlPiritul Pyr4or.
Miss K.rantKS M. Bnx, Presides, t.
Mia. J. W. KflXT, TiePr4tt.
Miss Jixxn Kasi, StcrtUrf.
F. J. Kur, Trearsrer.
Government Gens
1 la these days of war aad rumors of
wsr there is much talk of "prepsred
bbs" aad ia seas quarters the pre
paredness is taking definite form. Is
this ceaaeetioa ws wish to speak of one
form of peeparedseaa that bias ia it aa
element of daager: ths Bomaa Catholic
orgasixationa which are armed aad
drilled, ostensibly for defense of ths aa
tioa should it need defense against the
Bomaa Catholic church, subject, through
' priests snd bishops, to ths pops.
The Cathedral Uigh 8ehooL Wheeling,
"W. Vs- is forming a rifle club and has
received Winchester rifles from the
war deportment for its as. According
to tbs It'ssWta Meguttr, January 7,
this number eaa bo indefinitely increased
oa ths payment of a seminal sum for
sack rifle, aad Brother Aasetm, of the
school, is ia sorrespondeaeo with the wsr
department eoseerning ths procuring of
further arms. A rifle range is projected
at Elm wood where a Bomaa Catholie in
dustrial nrkool has a large farm.
.These Bomiak rifle clubs ars getting
aufmeroos throughout ths eouatry sad ths
oaf questioned aanertioa that guns are
sUired ia ths basements of Catholie
cheer kee Is ia a fair wsy So linen a
fart If It ass sot bsw sura heretofore.
Thea Bomtah orgaaiiattosa, armed aad
ei-pd aad drilled, may easily bsaoms
a est maaans wham ths aVslormiaataS
of Bern to make Aaaanra Cataolis m
tabes late Seconal
TVs Whetting Cathedral II (k rVbool
is Is charge ef ths Xawiaa Brothers
aad has 40 atadeaU, a fovmlUe body
abovld trestle ans similar to that wksrh
occwrred waes armed Ksigbts sf Colum
bus went forth to preveat espnear sf
Bomisb WToagdoiag at Marshall, Tea, sr
whew diss arises St ths deposing of
a priest as occurred a few days ago st
I hj -oat. Pa, which reaalted la death sad
blowUhed aad the arrest sf TJ foreign
ers, iaeludieg the deposed priest.
It is lime enoogh to fursisk guas to
those who wish to eheeldec arms hea
velua tears are nee. led to repel a foe or
put dows tasurrecttoa. It la daagerou
folly to givs guns to a foe that is al
ready ealrrsrhed ia our midst.
Armed squads that ars rev possible sad
obedient oaly to a priest who gets his
orders sad authority from a foreign po
tentate, ths pops of Borne, suay easily
become s serious menace to our peers
aad safety while tbs mob spirit rules
the children of Bowie as it did si
Uelweia, Heaver aad Marshall. Bomib
hatred of freedom aad truth will ase the
bullet st quickly sa the boycott If the
probability of puaiehmeat or prevsatloa
is even approximately remote. We have
already area how ineffectual is sny effort
to bring priestly perverts asd criminals
to successful prosecution.
Ko ma nixed courts work slowly aad with
wearisome lack of precision whes Rom
isk persona or Komi ah interests srs Is
jeopardy before the bar of Justice.
Romsnised legislatures snd congress
tend to take sway from tbs people each
year a little mors of their rights ssd
sdd a littls mors each year to the privi
leges of Boms.
With government guns being supplied
to Knniaa Catholie rills clubs whose
allegiance ia to the pops, ssd who stand
ready to obey wkea the priest or pope
shall command, it is well to look with
disfavor epos surk organisations and
surk preparedness as that at Wheeling.
A Humane Bishop
The late Bishop ft-anncl! of Omaha
Is said to have beea a tender-hearted
mwob who could aot bear the thought
of imprisoning wild things. II is garden
sr built ss elaborate Louse and captured
and placed ia It a aumber of squirrel.
Ths bishop discovered ths bouse and
freed the animals, saying bs could not
bear to see sny wild creatures shut up.
Hcannell's humans nature extesded
only to wild things be was deaf to the
idea for freedom which came from the
inmates of bis private prison, the House
of the Good Shepherd.
But those were prisoners of a dif
ferent kind, kept for a different pur
pose. TIIKIB CAPTIVITY MEAN!
MONEY FOB THE CHCKCU. The
girls behind ths high walls could be
made to operate washing machines snd
mangles, sort snd wrap duds, snd their
board snd lodging wss economically pro
vided for, snd, sines no wsges were
paid, tbs profit from the cleansing of
clothes ia tbs holy laundry was worth
considering and protecting.
bQl'lBHEI8 CANNOT BE TRAINED
TO TOIL FOK THEIR KEEPER
AND SERVE ONLY TO AMUSE. A
female slsvs may be tbs sourcs of both
labor aad amusement.
WHAT ROME DESIRES IS MONEY
AND POWER AND THE H. O. O. 8.
IS A MONEY MAKING INSTITU
TION and Scsnnell's successor will lose
ao sleep over ths captives ia the brick
walled asd iron barred rage. Only
squirrels ars entitled to consideratios of
a humane nature.
If all tbs women and girls who sre
hold ia confinement by Boms In the
United States were liberated aad con
gregated in one place they would popu
late a town of several thousand Inhabi
tants snd if ths vslus of ths buildings
in wblcb they ars held were given to
them they could buy the tows outright
and livs is peace aad plenty for the
rest of their lives.
Bishop fceannetl Is ao more. The
squirrels bs liberated ars roaming the
woods aad nesting without restraint.
But tbs Isrgor cage, the House of the
Good Shepherd, still stands and takes
its toll of Innocents from paths -of love
aad freedom ssd holds them to arduous
tasks through weary months snd years.
AN INSPECTION LAW IN EVERY
STATE WOULD TEND TO LIBER
ATE SOME OF THE CAPTIVES
OTHER THAN SQUIRRELS.
It is at least worth while making an
attempt to secure protection for ths vic
tims sf sack aa iafamooa system of
slavery ss tbs llouss of the Good Shep
herd is perpetuating ia free America.
Wbea the arrogant aad Idle priest
hood ars aot giving a play spoa words,
telling what ess must think sf anthink
able things, and how one most speak oa
BBspsakabls things sad rsckoa all who
think sad speak otherwise as caemiea to
God aad maa, they ars railing against
those whom they rail bigoted aat
Catholics" because the latter favor aee
alar adoration, divorce, eta. Friestly
venom has long beea directed to the
Premier of Spain,' and It will bo ao great
surprise to bear sns day that Bomanones
has beea saaaaaiaated by sons hireling
of Rome. Ts offset tbs power of King
Alphoaso's Premier, "the workisgmea
of Spaia ars being organized aader
Catholie auspices!" Purple gowned
bishop. Host is hand, bead procesasons
calculated to striks fear into the hearts of
those who tkiak as Alphoaso does "that
Spaia is progrsmiag at a anail's pars."
A Madrid eorrespoadeat writes that the
card archbishop solemnly blessed the as
sembled basners, which of course rna
taiasd laser! ptioss sack as "Down with
Hccular Srkooi Maaiat" "Laag lis the
Popsl" "Dowb witk Divorce!" "No
Taxation of Church Property!" ete.
Cleveland Titles and Taxes
I
X L00KIX0 over the einnpt
property list for the city of
Cleveland, Ohio, for the
twelve months ending: Seat
1. 1913, wt find that a great ttaaj
of ?ac Is riven over to titles held
by Rome. The exempt rropertr list
ior the city of ClerelsDJ and Cuya
hoga county it a pamphlet of 12?
pagrs, ?9 of those pages being; de
voted to exempt titles in the citj
proper.
TWEXTY-SIX OF . TIIOSE
PACKS ARK (JIVES' OVER TO
TITLES HELD BY JOHN P.
FARRKLLY. BIHIIOP OF
CLEVELAND.
Those twenty-sit pages tell an
abounding story and point a moral
which it would be well for the pa
triotic citizens of this nation to con
sider aril, for the possibilities of
dsngcr are great if the transfer of
titles to Rome ia not checked or the
tai exemption removed.
ROME WILL OWN THIS EN
TIRE COUNTRY IN AN IN
CREDIBLY SnORT TIME IF
SHE MAINTAINS HER PRES
ENT RATE OF ACQUISITION.
TnE DEATn KNELL OF FREE
DOM WILL HAVE SOUNDED
SOON UNLESS THE CLUTCH
ING HAND OF THE PAPACY
IS STAYED IN ITS ARROGANT
GREED.
John P. Farrelly, Binhop of Cleve
land holds the title to 679 pieces
of ground in Cleveland, not includ
ing the suburbs and townships.ont
side the city. The Rithop of Cleve
land owns 27.4H7 front feet, or 91
city blocks. This would line both
sides of a street for more than 45
blocks, or more than three miles.
The residents of Cleveland can es
timate what portion of tho city's
area that amounts to.
In addition to the above, there
are more than 57 acres in the
bishop's name INSIDE THE
CITY. Add tlmt to the 91 blocks
and an appreciable addition is
made to the total area owned by
Rome IN ONE CITY.
We hare no way of knowing, with
out going to much expense, what
the valuation of this property is.
bet no doubt the greater portion, if
not all of it, is improved the
House of the Good Shepherd alone
is valued at $225,000 and in actual
use for some purpose.
Other Romish organization! alo
are included among the owners of
untaxed ' property in Cleveland.
Among these may be mentioned the
Sisters of the Good Shepherd with
title to 413 front feet; Sisters of
Notre Dame, holding 225 front feet
IT'S A GREaAT PRIVILtEGE
It's a great privilege to live In a great country like this
at this particular age off tho world's history.
No man wants to pass through tho world without feel
ing that he has done something. In passing, that will leave
It a better world when he passes out than when he
arrived.
To be ablo to do something worth while, however. It
Is necessary to have the opportunity.
T venture to say that American manhood has never
been presented with a greater opportunity to do good
for the race than Just at this particular time.
Tho great struggle against political Rome Is the
greatest that has engaged the attention off the American
people since the Civil war.; This being true, men are
needed brave men men who are not afraid to fight.
They are needed by the thousands to help circulate Tho
Menace and arouse the people to the danger that con
fronts them. )
Will you not get on tho Firing Line now for God.
Home and Native Land? Iff ybu will, take the subscription
blank which we have enclosc'd In this issue of your Men
ace and see just how big a list off new subscribers you
can send us within tho next few days! .
- . i . . j t-
ST cat sum roc
aal 15 acres: Toor Sisters af St
KTsaria, owning 43 front fert;
Crtahae Acasfan?, 370 front fret
and 6J seres and the Friars Minor
Order of 8t Francis, 288 front fert
Three flgnrea; totaling nearly
three solid blocks and a plot of 70
acres, added to Fsrrelly'a bidding
bring the Kome-ownexl portion of
Cleveland up ti alsrming propor
tions. Even this' nisv not be all for
these nVurr cover only THE UN
TAXED PROPERTY held by the
Roman Catholic hurch and its or
ganizations. As far as the people of Cleveland
are concerned yiu vast amount of
real estate might as well be owned
bv the King of Enrlsnd or the Czar
of Russia. The pope permits no in
terference with the use to which
this property is put Laws do not
affect its use, apparently, else there
would be fewer slsve pens built and
operated upon Rome-owned soil.
IT IS ALIEN TERRITORY
CONTROLLED BY AN ALIEN
POWER AND FOR AN ALIEN
PURPOSE.
Yet the people of Cleveland are
blinded by Rome's infamoui hypoc
risy into the belief that it is all used
for rclious, educational or chari
table pur)oses and yield in danger
ous indifference to the demand that
no taxes lie levied upon the ground
and buildings owned by the Roman
Catholic church.
Since Rome-owned property re
mains Rome-owned in perpetuity,
with rare exceptions, and tho process
of acquisition goes steadily on, it
requires no keen perception or
stretch of the imagination to see
the fatal results that will attend the
unrestricted continuance of Romish
aggression and tenacity.
The Bishop of Cleveland owns
more ground in tie city of Cleve
land than is owmd by all other
churches combiner!, anil the state
and city, and the theater portion of
it is no more entit'ed to tax exemp
tion than is the property owned by
a private school, a practicing phv
sician or a Protestant minister. It
is all used for tbs advancement of
Romish interests which are, in the
main, the acquiring of financial or
political power, the segregation of
Catholic children from non-Cat h.
olic influences, educationally and
religiously, and the securing of
slaves for their laundries, sweat
shops and conventf.
The methods by which much of
(his property is acquired and the
manner of application to the uses
to which it is nut is characteristic
of a despotism. There are between
furty-five and fifty IIousos of the
(iod Shepherd in the United
State, anost of Urni being laundries
in which dirty duds are cleansed for
a price, the help being unfortunate
girls (their greatest misfortune be
ing their slavery to Rome) who
work without remuneration other
than aiant clothing and improper
food. Ttsese defenseless girls are
kept U hind locked doors, high walls
snd barred windows for intermin
able pthji1 ernt into louhnement
by Ruins nised courts and Rome's
own publicly paid pi.li.r, who act
ss hounds to trail and return any
victim who may attempt erspe, are
Juick to act alien a Romish slsve
river sounds a hurry call for help
to find a fugitive.
Uninspected institutions are not
alwvc suspicion, ami too often law
are violated behind locked and
guarded doors, and tho keeper and
owner of such places should be reck
oned as a menace to society.
Rome is one of the wont offend
ers, for she exploit women and
girls in her uniiipccted and un
taxed sweatshops and does it too,
under a pretense of piety and in
such a msnner that any preventive
effort is ineffectual.
In 1910 there were ,000 girls
in Houses of the Good Shepherd.
The total valuation of these institu
tions, amounted to $5,IH7,:i48, or
$923 for each inmate rather ex
pensive charity, if it could be called
charity.
The number of inmates in the
numerous convents will never be
known, and the identity of those
who go into Rome's c loistered houses
is lost to the outside world they
cannot be traced for any purpose
unless it is to the advantage of
Rome.
These are acme of the uses to
which Romo puts her millions of
uollara worth of untsxed property.
Un-American and inhuman, yet
eating into our very existence like a
cancerous growth that will ulti
mately destroy our civilization and
drag our people to the level of Mex
ico in ignorance and superstition,
oppression and crime.
Cleveland is no worse than other
cities in this respect In fact it
may not be so closely in the clutch
as some, but it is used as an illus
tration of the property strength of
the Roman Catholic church because
we have the figures at hand.
A plot of ground aggregating
more than 100 city blocks, not in
cluding the acreage, a section of the
city NINE BLOCKS SQUARE, is
exempt from taxation, some of it
being in choice locations and im
proved with vast buildings which
have been built by the citizens
through donations publicly or pri
vately solicited.
IF IT IS SO IN CLEVELAND,;
WHAT MUST BE THE SITUA
TION IN CHICAGO. NEW YORK
AND SCORES OF LESSER
CITIES?
HOW LONG BEFORE ROME
WILL OWN AND ABSOLUTE
LY CONTROL THE MAJOR
PORTION OF OUR CITIES?
There is f.n for thought in this
connection and agitation is needed
to the end that inspection msy be
secured snd taxation made possible.
Ibyor Mitchell a Menace
Tks New York J ericas, IWesnbef SO,
called atteatioa to the tetasl if klaror
Mitchell sf New Tork t it? t sh.k'ae
la to gala sbaoluts control sf the eit
sibeols. He to determined last the pub
tie erboula ef bis eitv snail ant r-e e.le
sjiiate nor efficient an'l is opposed to
aeressarv appiapruliuns. I a bis Komisb
desue to ruing iliarredit a(-a I be srhexils
be Is Bieettrg sjith the Apposition of tec
Host. I ( Mihatmn shirk has stood
soli.lly agaiaM rclurttua of facilities.
Tu otrrctims Dial opposition be bes
ei'i-ointcl elctra aesr ninilers to the
lizard knb gncs kira a niajority of
aa em hers ko will stand with kirn ia
whatever overt ads be mnv attempt. UK
1H A fZAB IX UMVATIONAI. MAT
THIS PINtK TIIKKK AMDIXT
MKNTH WKRE MADE.
John Purroy Mitchell is a Romaa
Catholic. A devotes ef ths pope, aad.
consequently, opposed to any educational
institution aot osnrd and controlled by
tbe Homes Catholie rkurrh. Tke pope
claims tbe right to dictate In matters of
educatioa and the Roman Catbolir rburrb
claims to have all authority over its
childrea. IT CAX COMMAND OHKDI
EXCK AND THE CIIII.DKKX Ml'MT
OIIKV.
Ho we say John Purroy M it-hell, the
Homes Catholic mayor of New York
City, is a Bieaare to the pulilie arhoole
of that city, lieiug aa influential Ro
man Catholic be must also lie an olrtlicnt
child of the rhiirrh, nnd as such will
appoint Catholics to iniHrtant positions
so far as may tie without arossmg too
gnat opposition.
Knowing the sttitudf of Home tuwsrd
our public school system, which has been
branded aa a "school of iniquity" and
"sink of immorality" by Catholic pre
lates and press, we can sell imagine the
deadly effect Catholie eoatrol may have
upon tbe syatem in ew lors I ity.
There ia aometkiufr radically wrong
wbea maa conspire against so (freat aad
necessary an institution ss the pehlic
school, yet Rome has set ber cunaing
minds at work witk Jesuit skill to under
mine and destroy the one tkmg that baa
made the I'nited Htates one of the most
literate of nation. And to place ia the
band of one man tbe absolute eoatrol
of a ritv's school i to court disaster.
THAT DISASTER IS MADE M EX-
ACEINtiLY IMMINENT WHEN;
THAT ONE MAN In A HUMAN
CATHOLIC. WITH I.OYAI. ALLE
tHAXCE TO A FOKEIQX POTEN
TATE. We ran well fornc the outcome of
Mitchell's plan. New York City will
revert to tbe plane of Portugal snd Peru
if Catholics sre allowed to convert the
publie schools into rstechism cramming
institutions la which f rocked priests and
habited nuns parade their pious hypoc
risy and empty itnauory. A si Bister
lower is clutching at the throat of edu
cation ia this nation and New York City
is feeling the pinch even bow. Witk the
arrogance ef despot Mitchell baa de
posed capable men only to replace them
with others who will Tixten to bis com
mand obey him, even as be is obedient
to the voice of Hume. But be ia meeting
a just and determined opposition.
President Churchill of the Hoard of
Education, one of those Mitchell would
supercede with more tractable timber for
his purpose of control, has gathered S
mass of data bearing upon tlie question
of adminiatraiioa of schools whiek places
the mayor and bis plan ia rather bad
light. This data will be arrayed against
Mitchell wbea be sski tbe legislature for
a change of syatem which will give the
City Hall direction of the school funds.
In the matter ef school board control
those statistica show that la oaly six of
twenty-three of the most importaut cities
otitsiile of New York ia the school board
appointed, la aixtoen tbe voters elect.
In eighteen the board is paid aad la four
on pent. In seventeen there is no control
by either mayor or city eoonciL The
board is entirely separate from tbe city
goverameat ia nineteen cities.
Already New York is beginning to sec
tbe folly, the evprne and danger ef in
augurating the Clary Mystem, though that
is one of tbe pet foibles of Mayor Mit
chell, aad it is all loo appsreat that tbe
Gary System will give Rome just the
opening aba baa long desired t get eoa
trol of tbe childrea for a portion of tbe
time that she may instill into their young
and T'"1'' misils the blighting dogmas
and snperstitieut practices of tbe Bomish
church.
Will New York City allow Rome to
plant tbe seeds of destrnetioa ia ita
school system ia this manner I Hurrly
aha has sera enough sf tbe workings of
papal politics to know tbst where there
is a true Romaa Catholic there will tbe
interests of tbe pspsay and tbe church
have right of way regardless of tbs
rights sad desire of the people.
POEM NEW YORK KNOW THE
NATVRB OP THE TRAP THAT
ROME 13 BAITING I
Yon Mast Go to Hell
Cslholis Cesrdlaa, FsaUae. Kirk. Jsn. IS.
Tbe parents who send their childrea
to schools where God "s asms la aot men
tioned or His ways spoke of, ars not
doing tbs will ef tbe Father, and they
shall aot eater the kingdom ef heaven.
Jttuit InsUfaUon
Ike aWweaass
ME Jut. wbe bee Issfcralsd Oa
aitacka amast I'rsf. Cue 4
freswtnea ef ersfwuSW 10x4184 a
tke I si-rrsi; ot TVisisseia. bate
reese late the smb. Ib a ' -"
to Jht Jmtrmtl he says:
asssrsl rssra ee I eallse
is sbmm s tea siissi
rHww a4 Trm4 uiu s
ea Sam I
taa Pa
Tbe "Pruteetaat miaisters" or eta
dent rhaplaiaa who bat snad pretest
willingly or aawittiagty are serving aa
sulking burse for a Jesuit iatrigvar.
The Jeseits are net reateal with
pentdiag tlteir wa iastjtattee Mar
quetteaa "soassetanaa," bat b
roasMteatly amigbt to nadetmiaa, sresiaa
aad esnaarauvl tbe t'aiveraity ef Wt
coesia aad degrade it from the bigk
position ehirb it bol-la ia tbe educalieeiel
world to the level of a Jesuit ran-.
The Jesuits are shout te sally forth
aad attack tbe pa-kebKka ef I'roiee
taat, Jew and Agaostie, ia aa eadeor
to raise 4-xi,"Oo for Marquette, to taw
greater glory and profit of their order
nnd in pursuaae of their purpose te
"make America Catholic," ia which
vest neither Protestant, Jew sr Ageoe
tic coald track saytkiag disapproved by
tbe rkurrk.
With the Jesuit ia power. Prof.
Otto's ead could he quite accurately
foieUld by reealltag the fate ef tke
hptsish teacher who was stood up
agaiast a wall and shot te death at the
instigation of tbe same rburrb that
burned Kruno at tbe stake, compelled
linlih-o to recant aad which boast that
it never changes.
Academic freedom ha ever bera
"mischievous" in the eyes of Rome, bo I
the mischief that it baa worked has bee
to emancipate tbe mis. is ot mea. It baa
permitted unrestricted research ia every
Beld of bum aji kaowledge. Troth is ae
longer demonstrated by working mirav
clre.
rleieaee ha bo sacred retire. It has
bo boaee or blood of taiata. Its achieve
ments so far surpass the magi of the
fakirs aad charlatans in ail the age
since the credulous have been preyed
upon by the cunning and crafty that the
miraculous ha lost ita authority.
It is not strange that tbe Jesuits, with
the moak and mendicants thnt have
fattened npoa aimple faith aad bomaa
credulity, bate prjrjie edncatios snj ae.
demie freedom.
Through the eeaturies the Jesuits he
repeatedly beea repulsed. They kave hist
one stronghold after another aad are
supreme only where tbe heritage ef the
people baa been a heritage of ignorance,
superstition nnd bigotry.
We do not believe that the Jesuits Bad
the church which they have served with
bliad and unscropuloss seal will be able
to succeed in the I'nited Htates where
they have failed in every land in which
enlightenment baa entered.
The workers of America to whom the
future of our civilisation is to be en
trusted must preserve it from the dead
ening blight of the ecclesiastical author
ity which for a thousand yewr paralysed
the intellectual life of Europe, they
most stand for public edueatioa, for the
publie schools, tbs state university asd
for the freedom to tench tbe truths that
science has revealed. It ia their rirbeat
heritage.
Anna Lowry Damage Suit
Tke case of Anna M. Lowry vs. lathee
J. r. Murphy of Cheney, Wash., i
which the priest ia sued for n.000
damage for having made certain alleged
slanderous and vile assertions concerning
Miss lowry, will come np for trial ia
auperior court st ripokane, Wavh., o
February 1.
Put her Murphy ia alleged to have
made tbe slsaileroua assertions at Medi
cal I-ake, Wash, about August 1, 19 1
Mise Lowry was arrested at Latlramls
Ore., last summer oa the charge ef hiv
ing used vile aad indecent language ia
a lecture to women only. Tbe eomplaiBt
was made by a prominent Knight ef
Colnmbu who was cashier la a bank
and the indignation aroaaed as a result
of the complaint and street came sear
wreck lag the bank. Tbe case was dis
missed by the judge wbea it ram to
trial sad Mis Lowry was thoroughly
vindicated.
Mies Lowry has bee the victim af
much persecution and proaerutioa at the
kand of Rome, aad eve bow is being
barred out of publie kalla, "protested ' '
agaiast aad maligned viciously ia New
York, and bo doubt there will be much
interest manifested ia tke beariag of
this esse. Hi see priests Bra paupers,
having taken tho vow of poverty, aad
Rome is skilled ia the maaipolatioa sf
her obedient children who bold JodiruU
and other position ef promises, it ia
almost impneaibs to successfully sws a
priest oa soy charge, but w hops for a
successful suit la this enee.
This ts ao time for dreaming, ka
Jesuits are erbemrng.
Ws At. Gratified
ream The Asesre Wsskhr Alisitlssr.
The publishers of Ths Msasra cer
tainly have can to feel gratified at
the reception give tbem ea their re
turs from trial ia tbe federal court
at Jepbn. When tbe aewa of tbe ac
quittal reached Aurora a hurried ptaa
waa asade te asset tbe train a4 esrert
tbem to their homes. The band waa
secured snd whew tbe train pulled
into tbe stalioa there were probably
2000 people who had braved tbe sec
weather and waited antil midnight to
joia ia tbe welcome. It waa a sincere
tribwt af regard from xriea&e aad
neighbors.
''mm "aawLaTataS)
as ' S SS Saae
reaiaau ssa US tasi as Ss as a ill
I ' lass taaaat laaai I It salisssSsj BawSaraa.
Tk M I I III liail Il ia, Is aaSMae)
SaVawaf M la.
