The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, H-.I5RUARY . 1016
NUMBER 18
N.
WILSON WELL GUARDED ' ALL TALK THAT WAY
WHY THERE SHOULD BE
TWO POLITICAL EVENTS
S. S. ALLEN PASSES ON
Elaborate Precautions to Insure His
Safety During His Brief Stay
In St. Joseph
A Kansas City Banker Supplements
the Remarks of President Forbes
of the First National
Senator Anderson Craig Announces! A
for f.rtrtnree anH inafnr I ueanht I
Pioneer
Most
Steamboat Man and the
Extensive Grocer in
St. Joseph
Lauds Wltson for Governor
s
v
l
M
K.
U--
OB
President Wilson at Kansas City Makes
Plain the Reasons for His Recent
Triumphal Journey
He Wants the People to Know From
First Hands Why He Is Strongly
Presenting Neutrality
The hundreds of St. Joseph people,
who went to Kansas City Wednesday
to hear President Wilton speak, one
and all returned Impressed with his
honesty of purpose and the great do
sire that he expressed for peace with j
honor, but his rugged determination
to prepare In such measure that there
could arise no situation which would
endanger this great republic. There
were as many Republicans as Demo
crats who made the journey from this
city and they all returned of one mind
the mind of reasonable prepared
ness. One passage of his speech neutral
ity, to which the president so stren
uously exhorted the country at the
outbreak of the war was particularly
Interesting to his audience, for it was
bo little understood or so much mis
understood that it Is well to again
quote it. He said:
Not In His Heart to Criticize
Let me say that I would not speak
of other nations In a spirit of criti
cism. Not only would it not become
me to do so as your spokesman and
representative, but I would not be In
terpreting my real feelings If I did so,
Every nation now engaged in the titan
ic struggle on the other side of the
water believes with an intensity of
conviction that it is fighting for Its
rights and In most instances that it Is
fighting for Its life, and we must not
be too critical of the men who lead
NgCOLLI for lieutenant governor.
PHILLIP McCOLLUM
The race for the Democratic nomination for lieutenant gov
ernor of Missouri has developed interest in the past few days and
the indications now are that it will be a most exciting one.
In this race St. Joseph also
son of Hon. Phillip McCollum,
all over the state through the fact that during the last two ses
sions of the legislature he has been one of its active working
members and enjoys the distinction at home of being the only
Democrat who has ever been elected to the legislature from that
rock-ribbed Republican stronghold, the First district of Buchanan
county. When he first made the
of the great Republican majority, was hooted at but he won
and their he rubbed it in as it were, by running the next time and
again winning.
McCollum is a real Missouri product. He was born on a
Harrison county farm and spent his first 27 years in tilling the
soil. Then he moved to Bethany
ness, and sixteen years ago removed to this city, where he has
since lived and become acquainted with every resident of St.
Joseph and a large portion of the population of Missouri.
He made a marked record in the legislature, where he cham
pioned many good bills and secured the passage of a number of
his own, which now adorn the pages of the statutes. In the last
assembly he refused to support the bill raising railroad rates.
Among other bills he supported were the board of pardons and
parole law, public service commission law, state highway de
partment law, road drag law, permitting voting by mail, corpora
tion supervision act, law abolishing convict labor, law for an in
termediary prison for persons convicted for a first offense and
the five school laws enacted by the Forty-seventh assembly.
Hon. Joseph II. Crites, of
ley, ol Warrensburg, are the active opponents of Mr. McLollum
RPR
E
NESS
those
nations. If America's liberty
were Involved, if we thought that
America's life was Involved, would we
criticise our leaders and public men
because they went every length of
even desperate endeavor to see that
the nation did not suffer and that the
nation did triumph? I have It not in
my heart to criticise these men.
The Kind to Observe
One of his St. Joseph hearers whoso
influence in the business life of this
..,. I- fQif ,.,., .i,. i i,i ' 'expected train had passed, in order to mittee of the Ameriran Bankers' as
city is felt every day, n speaking of rUw Qa tne Qf soclatlon o whIch hf. ls a memb(1,
this portion of the president's address! ....,. . .... and the federal reserve board and the
which for that matter was a sali
ent feature commented upon it in
this convincing manner:
"It ls the very soul and spirit of that
sort of neutrality which It behooves
the people of the United States to ob
serve, for it ls the neutrality of the
fair and open mind. We cannot avoid
having our own opinions as to the
causes of the war, whether remote
and obscure or immediate and plain.
We cannot help having our own ideas
of the effect that this outcome or that
may have on the world's future. Ac
cording as these opinions and ideas,
honestly arrived at, may influence us
we cannot help sympathizing with the
one side or the other In this gigantic
conflict, nut as open-minded people,
as fair-minded people, we must realize
(Continued on Page Eight)
presents a candidate in the per
who is well and favorably known
race his candidacy, on account
and entered the banking busi
Rolla, and Senator Wallace Cross-
Very few people realize that precau
tions on an elaborate scale, even to
the most minute detail, are necessary
for the FufeguiirdiiiK or political not-
ables In the course of their travel
from point to point, and while many
people read nbout rulers of foreign na-
tlons traveling Incognito for safety, In this paper last week appeared an In the el'y Monday, that he would en
yet when the president of the United Intenlew had by a Gazette young tor the lists against Congressman
States Is called on a mission to some man (who slipped a cog when he' Charles F. Uooher and contest for the
city, the railroads that carry him printed a prosperity Interview In that nomination for congress.
exert every effort for proper protec- Republican calamity howling Bheet)
Hon ttnd comfort to him on his jour- with President 11. T. Forbes of the
ney. Flist National bank of this city, who
Wednesday morning when the spec- had Just returned from New York and
inl train bearing President Wilson the Last, and who was bubbling over
and his party over thVChlcago Great with prosperity news and he is not
Western railway rolled Into the Union a Democrat, either. For fear that
depot at 5 o'clock, the entire party some misguided calamity trombonist
was slumbering peacefully, not reallz- ml?ht not be satisfied with the ver
ing, nor having to worry, about either slon of President Forbes, much as It
comiori or saieiy, jei iroiu me mo- is uisiikcu to reprouuee iansas v-uy tnjg s,jCt0n and his friends are push
inent of departure from Des Moines, testimony, the following from the jnK njs ciaims Kx-Senator Thomas
Iowa, every switch point and standard Kansas City Times of Tuesday is j j .-sacht of thi ritv attended the
on the main line was guarded by a
special watchman for one hour prev
ious to the arrival of the special at
that particular point. The orders to
guards were to report for duty at one
hour previous to and remain until the
,imtnni nr nihor liinntips tn tmiiner
,' ... .i i. , .. i . I-.- rrki,
I with the switch or switch points. This
order was given by the superinten
dents at Des Moines and Kansas City
and special agents of the company
patrolled the main line one-half hour
previous to the president's special to
see that the switch tenders' performed
their duty, from Des Moines to Kansas
City.
The president's special reached the
Union depot at 5 o'clock a. m. and
remained four minutes, when It re
sumed its Journey over the C. G. W.
tracks to Kansas City. While at the
station a number of early curious
looked at the combination compart
ment sleeper In which the president
of the United States was - peacefully
sleeping.
The Monroe club sent a representa-.,
tive group In a special train over the ,
Excelsior Springs electric line, head
ed by its president, Louis V. Stigall,
among whom there was quite a sprink
ling of prominent Republicans from
this and nearby cities. A delegation
from Ilethany, Mo., in a special train
carrying over 200 persons, arrived
oer the Charlton & St. Joseph tracks
at noon, bearing both delegates to the
Jefferson Highway association and
visitors to hear President Wilson's
speech on "Preparedness" at the Au
ditorium in Kansas City. Nearly all
neighboring towns sent delegations,
and Northwest Missouri furnished its
full quota to hear the present and
next president of the United States
give his views on that much vexed
question "Preparedness."
OWNS ALL AROUND
So No One Can With Any Degree
Certainty Build on the
Townsite
of
David McKnlght, an old bachelor
of Dell, Montana, was here this week,
(siting friends and incidentally wait
ing to go to Kansas City to see the
president which he did.
There is nothing specially notice
able about McKnlght with the excep
tion of the fact that he Is a good
Democrat and descended from good
Uepubllcan stock, his father, James
McKnlght. having been one of the
prominent gop party fixers in Noda
way county for many years, during
which he also performed the onerous
duties of postmaster at Barnard.
Therefore, the fact that David early
forsook paternal Republicanism and
Joined the party of Jefferson and Jack
son and Wilson ls an elaboration of
the theory of healthful progression.
Ilut while this shows that David is
a mighty good citizen, it does not tell
the story that this Introduction pre-
faced, which ls that David is possibly
the only other man In the United
States outside of Uncle Andy Car- ing to referendum and other proposed
negie that owns a whole town, as he changes In the measure could be
does Dell, That place la on a branch threshed out on the floor of the sen
of the Oregon Short Line, and the ate, as they certainly will be, and to
reason that David owns nil of the the queen's taste. The present status
townsite of Dell is that when the rail- of trfe matter 's that the bill ls now on
road came through he already owned the Benate calendar, and will be up for
all of, or at once acquired, the land discussion late In February.
on each side of and along both sides
of the railway. Now he works the OLD SONGS RE.TWISTED
autocratic idea just as It suits him. There was a tavern in our town.
He has good tenants in the buildings nut the temperance people shut it
of the places (which he owns) and he, down.
sees that tney ao wen, tor ne win
neither rent ground or sell a site for
a store or business building. As his
(Continued on Page Eight)
ur course no true bt. Josepn man
likes to have Kansas City proof for
anything for they are too loyal to
their own home citj but sometimes
a little proof from the city down at
the Kaw's mouth helps, and in this
instance it will. I
given as a "clincher" for the I'reM-
dent Forbes Interview:
j w. i-erry. presiuem 01 wie noiun-
wefct National Hank of Commerce, re
turned yesterday from Washington,
nOini-fi tin -ni t r frttrt In n rmnfirinoi
betvu;,,n the f(,(lf.ra, lesistation com-
and the federal reserve board and th
governors of the federal reserve
.,,,.
"In the eastern cities," said Mr.
Perry, "banks are so full of money
that they are loaning at 2' to 3 per
cent. There is no complaint of exces
sive rates there or in any large cities,
but some of the smaller banks in the
South and West get more than the
legal rates on small loans.
financial conditions in the bast)
pvronfl nnvtlilnir ovur nYnnHonnorl Yic.
ro7e". ThnrehR. been an increase of
more than a billion dollars in deposits
and in loans of New ork banks
within a year. Some banks have ,
UUUUILU HJCTii UTfUaiL?) Littll JJVI IUU,
NOW UP TO SENATE
Prohibition Members of the Senate
Committee Resort to a Doubt
ful Subterfuge
Washington, D. C, Jan. 29. By a
subterfuge which was entirely unex
pected, and which has probably neer
before been resorted to In the na
tional congress, the Sheppard bill for
absolute prohibition In the District of
Columbia was, on Friday, January 2S,
reported to the senate by the commit
tee on the District of Columbia.
The prohibition members of the
District of Columbia committee met
quietly Thursday evening and formed
the plan to have the chairman call a
sudden meeting of the committee at
10:30 o'clock on Friday mrning. Of
course the anti-prohibition members
who are in the majority were not
taken into the secret, and fully ex
pected, as did the senate Itself that
full and extended hearings would be
held In committee, which has been
the invariable rule and custom. When
the hour came for the meeting of the
committee the prohibition members,
who had been "cocked and primed"
for the deal, were on the ground to a
man, and the unti-prohibltion mem
bers, who anticipated no such action
as was pre-arranged, were slow tn
arriving. Immediately upon the doors
being closed, and almost on the dot
of 10:30 o'clock, a motion was made
to tit once report the bill favoratlj to
the senate and to dispense with all
hearings. The several anti-prohibition
members who had arrived protested
Igorously, but in the face of tne odds
against them the best they could do
In view of the evident determ'tiatlon
to "railroad" the bill through the
committee, was to prevent the com
mittee sending In u favorable report
on the bill, and it was reported to the
senate "without i-commendatlon." It
was all over in a few moments, ac
cording to program laid down at the
secret Thursday meeting, except for
the omission of the favorable report.
When Senator Phelan and others ar
rived
at the committee room the
smoke of battle had cleared away and
the committee had adjourned. The
decision was that all questions relat-
Now when you want a drink,
You must buy, In wrapper pink,
Some patent medicine of great re
nown. Dade County Advocate.
The politicians, now that the cam
palgn Is drawing apace, are getting
down to work In earnest, and from
this time on things will begin to hum.
Onp of the features of the week was
the announcement made by Senator
Anderson Craig of Maryvllle, who was
I Senator Craig said that he had no
fight to make on Congressman Uooher
and that he stood for preparedness,
improvement of the Missouri, and the
, enlargement of rural free delivery.
Senator Craig is well known in the
Fourth district and Is now serving as
state senator from the First district.
i The Francis Wilson for governor
boom has taken on additional force in
Prw,ident Wilson meeting at Kansas
clty amI whllfl thf,rP k(,pt up t))( ow.
i,, nf .., nn,i u,i nf u.i,iii th
j Kansas City Post of Thursday says:
j Strong appeal to Francis M. Wilson,
, United States district attorney, to be
come a candidate for the Democratic
nomination for govenor ls being made
by friends, especially in the northwest
part of the state. The appeal was
voiced last night by Thomas J. Ly-
, saght, former state senator from St.
Joseph and a leading Democrat of that
city.
Senator I.ysaght was in Kansas City
to urge Senator Wilson to run for gov
ernor and to hear President Wilson
j speak.
'"Wilson for president and Wilson
. . . ..i.i i. ui v... An.i
iV " ',""' u Zh n,Zr
191G.. gald Senator i.ysaght. "No man
(Continued on Page Eight)
GROWNEY
m
JAMES C. GROWNEY
Attorney James C. Growney, is a candidate for the Democratic
nomination for judge of Division No. 3 of the circuit court of
Buchanan County, subject to the will of the qualified voters at
the August primary. Mr. Growney was reared on a farm in
Nodaway county, Missouri, where he received his education, first
attending the common schools and later the Missouri State Uni
versity, where he was graduated from the law department with
the degree of L. L. B., admitting him to the practice of law in all
the courts of this, his native state.
Upon the completion of his law studies he located at Mary
ville, Mo., and entered upon the active practice of law, and for a
score of years thereafter amply demonstrated his ability as a
lawyer in the trial of cases both in the circuit and appellate courts
of Missouri.
In 1912 Mi". Growney took up his residence in the city of St.
Joseph, with his office in the German-American Bank building,
where he is now engaged in the active practice of his profession.
He is a man in the prime of life and considered well equipped
both mentally and physically to perform the arduous duties of
the office to which he aspires. Not only is he recognized as an
able lawyer, but his temperament is such as to make him pecu
liarly qualified for a position upon the bench.
There is not a person in St. Joteph
who hag lived here for any length of
tlmo who will not mis S. S. (Sam)
Allen, the veteran grocer, who crossed
the river at an early hour Monday
morning, after an Illness of but a
short time. Ills death was primarily
the result of the infirmities of age
and was not unexpected. The funeral
occurred from the family home Wed
nesday afternoon and the attendance
was only limited by the ability to
Set near to the services.
The deceased was born in Mum
fordsvllle, Ky., Jan. 24, 1833, and he
removed to St. Joseph In 1854, where
from 1S56 to 1S76 he was engaged as
a pilot on the Missouri river and nav
lgated some of the finest craft which
plowed Its muddy waters. When the
river traffic ceased he established the
Allen Grocery company, In which he
was eminently successful and amassed
a fortune. His wife and a sister, Mrs
Katie Allen, survive him.
S. S. Allen was one of the men who
did things. He was an open hearted,
public spirited citizen and did much
charity which never snw the light of
publicity. He was a man of the class
who is a credit to any community
and any city.
WHEN GENE FIELD LEFT "ST. JO"
The following, taken from the
"Forty Years Ago" column of the Kan
sas City Times of Thursday, will still
be of interest to the people of St
Joseph who loved the editor-poet who
immortalized "Lovers Lane, St. Jo"
Eugene Field has quit the St. Jo
seph Gazette and hied himself to St
Louis, where he will undertake to put
some spice into the columns of The
Journal of that city.
E.
GIRGUT
11
..(
