ARM
3
AILT
rrn
VOL. XIX NO. 276.
1MKKK, VKItMOXT, SATUKUAY, FKJIKUAKY 3, 1010.
I'ltICK, ON'E CKXT.
THE
B
CANNON ROAR
ON WEST FRONT
But No Attempt Has Been
Made to Follow Up with
Infantry Attack
OFFICIAL REPORTS
RECORD LITTLE
British Repulse Asserted by
Constantinople Bulga
rians Have Reverse
There Is a decided lull :it present along
the various war fronts. Heavy artillery
play continues along the line in France
find Belgium but neither there nor in any
cither important theatre of operations
liave there been infantry movements re
sulting in exctiuuges of territory worth
noting, so far as the official reports re
veal. In Mesopotamia the British relief army
under General Ayliner, which bus been
halted for some time a short distance
down the Tigris from Kut-El-Amara,
where General Townsend's force is re
ported to be beleaguered, does not appear
to have been able as yet to mnke further
progress. Constantinople declares the
British attempting to advance from Fe
lahie were repulsed by Turkish counter
attacks and compelled to fall back to
their former positions.
In Albania, where a mixed situation
THREE DROWN AS
BARGE IS SUNK
Coal Ship, Portsmouth Bound, Collides
with the Steamer Howard.
Vineyard faven, Mass., Feb. 5. Three
men were drowned yesterday when barge
No. 12 of the Consolidation Coal com
pany, in tow of the steamer Charles F.
Mayer, was sunk off Point Judith in n
collision with the steamer Howard, bound
from Norfolk to Providence. Capt. Sea
men of the barge and two of his crew,
who were probably asleep at the time,
were lost, while the Howard rescued two
others and took them to Providence. .
The Maver whs coming up the mast
from Sewall's Point for Portsmouth, N.
IL, with two barges. She had swung in
past Block Island and was heading across
to Gay Head, shortly before daylight,
when the Howard, also from the south
ward, attempted to cross her stern. The
No. 12 was the first of the two barges
and the Howard struck her on the star
board side just about midships. The
urge was heavilv loaded with coal and
sank in a very few minutes.
STRONY WAS
FREED TO DAY
Suspect in Ottawa Parlia
ment Fire Was Ar
rested Yesterday
IS OPERA SINGER;
HOME IN CHICAGO
HAS NINE SEA RAIDERS.
Germany is Said to Be Fairly Weil Sup
plied. New York,, Feb. 5, Nine sea ruid-
Dominion Government Or
dered His Release
at Windsor
Windsor, Out., Feb. 5.- Charles Strony,
the opera singer arrested last night on
suspicion of having been cci:ncti;d with
the lire in the Parliament house at Ot
tawa Thursday night, was released to
day on orders from the dominion govern
ment. Strony said he expected to leave
for Chicago early this afternoon.
Strony was arrested yesterday after
noon on instructions received from I ol
tho present Congress. Thero is appre
hension that some crank, agitated by the
Canadian explosion, might he influenced
to commit some act of destruction here.
Washington' most protected point
from attacks of this . kind, beginning
with tho Holt bomb explosion last sum
mer,, has been the capitol building and
the railroad tunnel which passes under
ground between the capitol uud the li
brary of Congress.
About the time of the Holt bomb ex
plosion last summer, railroad oflicials in
creased the lorce or track walkers ami
guards in the tunnel. The reason given
for the increased vigilance was that in
formation had reached railroad officials
that German and Austrian officials were
planning to wreck the tunnel and there
by stop the movement of war munitions
from the DuPont factories at Hopewell
a., to Atlantic seaports.
ACTOR BALLIN
DIED AT SEA
The American Citizen Had
Been Deported from
England
VICTORIA BRIDGE
OBJECT OF ATTACK?
... H il A Jl nf . 1 C UUUIl OH IIHO.1 W'UUIIS f ITIni 1IUIII oi.
eis of tho type of the Moewe have been T ,, .,, .
u i - i 4i r i r J. S. Sherwood, chief of the Dominion
fittoil onr l,r tlia I :eiii,a tin a twl ,ue nt '
them which escaped from Kiel on New
Vafcil .. rial wp 4-VlA "4 fIAll'11 ll il J a I mA
teen preying on British commerce with e.d t'10, cl,arK 88
1 . SMiil Iia hint -nhiveil n
police, being taken from a Canadian Pa
cific train from Ottawa
s mucn success as mo A nam n rap- i . , i . , ,, ii .. .. i
,. , . . V, , , ment before the Duke of Connaught and
or, according to a story told here last . . , ,, ,,,, , ,. e , ,
it!, xi v v n . :t f;his f-ltlF lhursdav afternoon and was
lght by Mis. Francis ruller, wife of ,. . .,.,; 4
as much success as tho Appam's cap
tor,
nigl
the Ilritish governor general of Asbanti
-Mrs. Fuller was one of the 07 passen
gers of tho Appam who arrived here
from Norfolk, Va., on board the Old Do
minion steamer Jefferson. Forty offi
cers and 03 members of the crews of the
Ilritish vessels captured by the Moewe
and Inter taken in charge by the tier
man prize crew which brought the. Ap-
Strony churac
ridiculous. He
musical engage
on his way to Chicago. According to
the message received from Col. Sher
wood, Strony left Ottawa two .hours aft
er the fire started.
WELL KNOWN IN UNITED STATES.
Charles Strony Formerly Was Conductor
With Boston Opera Co.
n;i the itnionriiina roimrfnH s lam to American waters also were on
having a hard time and to have been 'the Jefferson. They were transferred to
obliged to fall back toward the Drinai tug and taken to the Seamen's insti
river near the eastern frontier. The oc-'tute, where they will be cared for until
- . . . . 1 .... 1 T. .J ,. 1 1. .....
cupation of strategic points by the forces ana..?......, van or u.aue to oc,.u mr... , wi(f,y known gs ft nuik.a, (irp(,u,r nd
ot t.ssad Pasha and by Serbian troops ','7'T, , r during tho season hist closed he was
Militia Guards Fired on Man Who Was
Seen Walkinon the Ice He Fled
Without Further Ado.
Montreal, Feb. 5. What is believed to
ave been an attempt to blow up the
ntoria bridge was frustrated last night
by militia 'guards, it was learned to-day.
About midnight the guards noticed a
man making his way toward the bridge
on the ice, and when challenged he re
treated without answering. He was fired
upon but escaped. An investigation by
the authorities convinced them that an
attempt to destroy the bridge was in
tended, i
RURAL SURVEY OF VERMONT
of
HAD TAKEN PASSAGE
ON LINER BALTIC
The Steamer Arrived in New
York To-day with Small
Passenger List
New York, Feb. f. Tho White Star
liner Baltic arrived to-day from Liver
pool, with only 23 steerage passengers
and 153 first and second cabin passengers.
Ifenry llallin, the American actor deport
ed from Kngland, died on Jan. 29 and
was buried at sea.
MAY ISSUE ORDER
ON GRADE CROSSING
Because Railroads and Montpelier Could
Not Agree on Division of
the Cost.
ELECTION GOSSIP IN BARRE.
To Be Conducted Through Section
Central Part.
Burlington, Feb. 5. There was a meet
ing of tlie committee on rural problems
of this state at the Hotel Vermont yes
terday, four ofHho eight members of the
committee being present at the meeting, i Montpelier an
which lasted from 11:30 o'clock in the commission instructed the city of Mont- unusual pressure brought to bear upon
Several Names Have Been Mentioned in
Connection with Mayoralty.
Election day coming this year on the
latest day in March that it can in any
year and yet comply with the require
ments of sec ion 3,4 18 of the public stat
utes, the political pot in Barre has been
unusually slow to Sit a-boiling, albeit
there has been a subdued bubbling within
the. present week, and to-day, it may be
said, there am some very tangible ru
mors percolating through the sub-strata
of town talk. Until within a very few
davs, there have been evidences of ap
athy in the situation, but signs jiiHt now
point to the forward movement that is
usually started in the weeks immediately
preceding election day by those expo
nents of extrcmo busyness, the mention-ers.
Attention naturally centers on the
mayoralty question, and while several
possible candidates have been mentioned.
it cannot be said that anyone has so far
avowed Inmscll a candidate as to make
statement over his own signature .
Perhaps for the reason that he is alread. .
m familiar terms with present city af
fairs, it ia seemly to refer to the name
of Alderman 0. I). Slmrtleff. Mr. Shurt-
c(T has been approached. Close friends
and others have almoct importuned lnm
to make a campaign. His reply is that
he is not a candidate in the sense that
he has his sleeves rolled up for a contest.
Then there is ex-Alderman Harry C.
atterson, who has had the honor of hav
ng had bis name mentioned in connec-
lon with two olhces, that of mayor and
lderman from the second ward. Mr.
'atterson is in a mood that might be
escribed as receptive, although ho is
leeply engrossed in his business affairs
nd is not by any manner of means seek
ing the office. Attorney K. L. Scott has
been solicited as a candidate, but re
fuses to take the solicitations of his
friends seriously enough to warrant the
faintest hope that he would allow his
name to be used. Within tlie week At-
SHARP ISSUE
ON "ILLEGAL"
United States and Germany
at Variance on Its
Interpretation
LATESERLIN NOTE
BF,
V
1
CONSIDERED
It
as Presented by Von
BernstorfF Last
Evening
Following a hearing-which lasted near-
y the entire day at the State House in
Montpelier on the matter of eliminating torney J. Ward Carver has been sought
the Tabor grade crossing located between lout by his friends and his mime openly
d Barre, the public service connected with the mayoralty. Despite
Chicago, Feb. 5. Charles Strony, held
at Windsor, Ontario, for alleged com
plicity in the destruction of the Cana
dian Parliament building at Ottawa, is
who have re-formed at Durazzo is be
Jieved in Athens to make a new Bulga
rian expedition toward tlie coast difficult.
The advance of Austrians down tlie Al
banian coast continues, the latest advices
apparently indicating that they were
some 20 miles northeast of Durazzo. Tlie
arrival of 2,000 Montenegrin troops at
Durazzo, after a fatiguing retreat, is an
nounced.
RUMANIA TO PLEDGE
MORE 'WAR" CREDIT
Bill Introduced in Legislature Would
Add 8,000,000 Pounds to Amount
Already Appropriated.
Amsterdam, via London, Feb. 5. A
Bucharest dispatch says: "At yester
day's sitting of the Rumania chamber,
the minister of finance introduced a bill
authorizing a supplementary military
credit of 8,000,000 pounds. The total
war credits thus far amount to 24,000,-
000 pounds."
t .. . I". . H .1 1 .1 C il, f ' ..-
u.-. awca ""-llluler contract with the Chicago Orand
man officers who came aboard the Ap.j0 c,impnny to -conduct French
pam was authority or the statement , rrel,Uny ,,, wa9 for flve year8
r. int. tli. i.irmiiii a had pntiimuvi tut ninfl .....'. rf
raiders at Kiel. She said lie told her V " , . l"n CO"ipl",y a9
41 I .1 .1 1."! iiiiaii. vvrii,4i.v
me -ium'Me. Him uie omei wiui'ii es
caped the British patrol passed almost
within stone's throw of three British
cruisers within a few hours aftey they
left the Kiel canal.
" GERMANS REPULSED
ATTACKS
TWO
of
One Attempted By French South
Somme and the Other By British
South of Labassee Canal.
Berlin, by wireless, Feb. 5. Thebieak
down of a French hand grenade attack
south of Somme and the repulse of a
British attempt to advance south of La
bassee canal are announced by the Ger
man army headquarters to-day. A con
tinuation of heavy artillery fire by the
French in the Champagne and Argonne
is also reported.
PHILIPPINE BILL PASSES SENATE.
Vote was 52 to 34, Several Republicans
Being for th Measure.
Washington, I). C. Feb. 5. The Phil
ippine bill, which would extend to the is
lands a greater degree of self-govern
ment and would authorize the president
to grant them absolute independence
within four years, passed the Senate last
night, 52 to 24. Various Democratic sen
ators, led by Chairman Stone of the for
eign relations committee, tried unsuc
cessfully to obtain amendment of certain
features of the independence clause, but
in the end the Democrats, joined by six
Progresnive Republicans, voted solidly
for the measure.
It is understood the bill will go-to the
RIGID INVESTIGATION
OF OTTAWA FIRE
Suspicion Still Remains That the De
struction of Parliament Building
Was Due to a Plot.
Ottawa, Ont, Feb. & The list of those
who lost their lives in the fire which
destroyed the Canadian Parliament
building has been fixed at seven. Five
of the bodies still lie beneath the ruins.
morning until late in the afternoon. It
was the first meeting of the committee
since their appointment at the meeting
or tlie inter-cliurch federation held in
Burlington just before Thanksgiving.
Those present were Rev. Fraser Metr
ger of Randolph, F. (C. Dyer of Salis
bury, Rev. K. P. Treat of Pittsford and
Rev. J. M. Maxwell of Fairfax. The
other members of the committee are
Prof. Raymond McFarland of Middle
bury, Mortimer Proctor of Proctor, Rev.
C. J. Peterson of Kast Berkshire and
Rev. G. L. Wells of Irasburg.
It was decided by the members present
yesterday to conduct a survey of a cross
section of the central part of Vermont
to obtain all available information, re
ligious, social, agricultural, industrial
and educational. After this information
has been obtained it is the inter.tion of
the committee, which is working in con
junction with the rural life commission
of the Federal Council of Churches of
Christ in America, to makeStlch 1 Tecom-'
mendations to rural communities in the
state as will aid in the work of the rural
churches and those already engaged in
the improvement of rural conditions.
Where it is found that work is already
pelier and the interested railro:K tlie j him and notwithstanding the fact that
Central Vermont and Montpelier t Wells
River, to endeavor to agreo upon the di
vision of expense. ' A conference was
held between city officials and officials of
the railroads without success and the
hearing adjourned with the understand
ing that the commission would make an
order in the case.
Among those who were examined yes
terday were civil engineers for the rail
roads, President A. B. Tenney of the
Tenney Electric company. Sunt. A. A.
Stebbins of the Montpelier & Wells Riv
er, Harry S. Tabor, who resides near the
crossing winch the city seeks to elim
inate by means of an overpass, and May
or .T. Si". Bout well.
The proposition before the commission
for consideration would construct a
bridge near the traction company barns
and an overpass when the railroad tracks
are reached. The estimated cost is given
as between f46,0O0 and 48,000,
DIED AT WTLLIAMST0WN.
. eL:,-! "T V .f,! rd''e fy -long these
to other communities.
CELEBRATED FREEDOM FROM DEBT
Dominion Constable DesJardins, Al-
hponse DesJardins, a plumber and Ran
dolph Fanning, a waiter.
While firemen spent yesterday in pour
ing tons of water on the smouldering Dummerston G , Burned Mort.ae
debris, government officials were mak- . , " b
Brattleboro, Feb. 5. The Dummerston
grange last evening celebrated the clear-
ing plans to erect a new and more im
posing structure on the site of the build-
House with the backintf of President ing wrecked by Thursday night's fire.
Wilson, and there will be pressed for I Meantime Parliament will sit in the au-ing of the grange building from debt by
early passage. There has been little in- Iditorium of the Royal Victoria museum j burning the mortgage of $1,500 which
dication of what action the House will until tlie new customs house can be was placed on the $4,.r(HV building when
made ready for occupancy. it was built in 1909. The sum of $.'!.-
Although the police frown on the tlie- '000 wag raised by subscription at the n'ther was hurt by a fall, and Mrs. Les
ory that plot was responsible for the time the building was constructed and ter - Mi"pa.n of this village; also two
destruction of the building or that the the amount of the mortgage has been prandchildren; a brother, N esley M. Sea
fire was started by a bomb. Fire Chief raised since by entertainments. State ver- ' nephew, Charles M. Seaver.
Graham is quoted' as having said that Master W. X. Cadv of Middleburv wasi 1Ie waa horn Dec. 8, 1839, and was
CONDEMNS REPRISALS.
Viscount Bryce Says Britons Stand for
Humanity.
London, Feb. .5. Viscount Bryce. for
mer ambassador to the United States
speaking at Bedford college, London, last
night, condemned the jiolicy of reprisals
against Germany, which since the last
Zeppelin raid has gained many advocates.
"We stand in this war for justice and
right, Viscount liryce said, we stand
for humanity and from that position we
must not depart. I don't myself believe1
for a moment that we shall gam any
thing by departing from it.
"If it came to cruelty against cruelty,
the enemy would always win. I see no
reason to think that any recourse to in
human practices that are shocking the
philosophy and morals, which the enemy
has adopted, would have the slightest
effect on him or promote in any way our
military success. We would not gain,
and we should certainly lose, lM-rause
there is nothing that has won us more
approval and sympathy of all that is
bent in the neutral nations than that we
have championed the caue of justice and
humanity. That is what has nerved our
arm and has created a unity never par
alleb-d in any previous crisi of our his
tory."
take, but administration leaders last
night seemed confident that the bill, in
cluding tlie independence feature, which
Democratic senators declare squares it
with the Baltimore platform, would have
the approval of the House Democratic
majority. The Republican senators who
voted for the bill were Borah, Clapp,
Kenyon, LaFolIette, Jvorris and orks
By overwhelming majorities, the Senate
had refused to modify the Llarke amend
ment, adopted several davs ago, which
contains the independence provision and
also gives the president authority to ex
tend or withhold independence at the end
of four years, if he should find condi
tions in the islands unfavorable. The
time would be. extended, however, only
until an incoming Congress could con
sider the subject.
Senator Stone declared the bill in real
ity was not an independent measure at
all because of the extension provision
and offered an amendment to eliminate
S. Martin Seaver, a Respected Citizen of
the Town.
Williamstown, Feb. 5. S. Martin Sea
ver, an aged and respected citizen of Wil
liamstotvn, died at his home on North
field street in this village at 3 o'clock
this morning of bronchial pneumonia,
following the grippe. He had been sick
for a week. Mr. Seaver was a native of
Williamstown and spent most of his life
in this town, although for a time he re
sided in Middlesex. His occupation was
that of farmer and stock dealer.
He leaves his wife and two daughters,
Myrtle B. Seaver, a teacher in Spring
field. Mass., who came home when her
the tire was set" and that he heard
several explosions.
Government officials assert they do
not believe the flames were of incen
diary origin, but they nevertheless are
conducting a rigid investigation in ani-
effort to determine whether there is any
basis for such a suspicion. Coroner Craig
of Ottawa will hold an inquest on Feb
ruary 17 into the deaths of Mesdames
Bray and Morin, whose bodie are the
only ones thus far recovered. The re
mains of both were taken last night to
Quebec.
present and delivered the principal ad
dress and E. 11. Miller sang. A dance
concluded the festivities of the evening-
OFFICERS CHOSEN.
Supt. Walter H. Young Heads the Cale
donia County Teachers.
St. Johnsbury, Feb. 5. The Caledonia
County Teachers' association elected the
following oflicers yesterday afternoon
therefore 70 years old. His marriage to
.Miss Miza Jtriice took place in Montpe
lier Nov. 1, 1806, and had he lived until
next November the couple would have
observed their 50th wedding anniversary.
line a resident of Middlesex .Mr. Seaver
served as road commissioner, an office
which he was later to fill in Williams
town, where he was also a selectman for
some years.
The funeral will be held at the house
Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock. Rev.
John Irons, pastor of the Congregational
A cordon of troops has stood guard all : president; Supt. M. E. Daniels. Lyndon
day around the ruins of the building ville, vice president; Miss Xellie A. Man
Supt. Walter H. Young of St. Johnsbury, I m'rV'' he the ofhciatmg clergyman
mm miri mem w in ut- mam in me vil
lage cemetery.
and held back the thousands who vis
ited the scene. Xone was permitted to
it, but his proposal was voted down, 00enter any part of thoae sections of the
ZEPPELIN HASN'T RETURNED.
Germany Issues Official Communication
on L-19.
IWlin. via Ixmdon. Feb. 5. An official
communication iMued yesterday ndrnits
1 tliat .fpix lin H!l has not returned
from a reeonnoitering flight and that in
quiries concerning the airship ha? been
without reiilt.
London, Feb. 5. .No trace has lvn
found of the Z.plin wreaked in the
North . British nal vel bae
made a thorough search and hare re
turiwd to port with the report that they
l.n.i nn nothing of the dirifiblo.
Oorpe IVrney. mat of the trawW
'Kins Mephen. wkirh righted the J-po-l
n. stated TeMenlsy that h bI.pv-d
thrr was no chanrr of the airship brina
Ute fv. nney m,J that all ti
th- Zrpnrba wore life lm, kith weri
Jtt'.tsiJ alsoia tit hala ay.
I
to 17. Senator Hitchcock, chairman of
the Philippine committee, sought to
amend the bill by extending independ
ence within four years on condition that
the people and legislature of the Phil
ippines should ratify a constitution, this
was rejected, 03 to
Senator Norris, in opposing a provis
ion in the bill empowering the president
to retain naval bases in the Philip
pines, declared President Wilson had
been converted from a man of peace to
militarist.
Senator William Ald.-n Smith criticised
tlie Democrats for their determination
to give up the Philippines, and declared 1
he American people did not wish to see
lie American flag over tho islands
lauled down.
This ation is an unjustifiable and
uncalled for surrender of American
rights," lie said. "If these islands be
come anarchistic and the people get t
warring among themselves, you will be
blamed for it as you ought to be. If
other countries go to war over them, it
will date from the day when you cow
ards abandoned a task which providence
placed in your bands and which, by this
act you are acknowledging your are un
able to master.'
building which remain stnnding.
GOVERNMENT COMMISSION
Chester, Mi-Indoes Falls, treasurer: Miss
Dora Phillips, Sheffield, treasurer; Supt.
Leonard I). Smith, Wells River. Miss N.
4 A. Leonard, Concord, and Principal O. D.
1 t
.uuniewwin, J.ynuon tenter, executive
committee.
ALLOWED $20 DAMAGES ONLY
Although Woman Valued Property Lost
at 17,000.
New York. Feb. 5. Tle appelUte di
vision of the supreme court vesterdav
affirmed a ruling of the low it courts that
Ruth de Rnchcmont is entitled to on! v
$.u damages f mm the Boston 4 Maine
railroad company for the h of a lms.
tie contents of which v!n-4 at t7.-
.
The hn ahipnM from Portsnfiith.
N. IL. nti'i-r the U-i!tMn of hmi
KoH gooHs." mm w, . h a a!ue f J!(J a
liiui4rrd J"uriJ was lict.A
Will Be Appointed to Investigate Parlia
ment Fire.
Ottawa, Feb. .". Sir Robert Borden,
premier, announced to-day that tiic gov
ernment proposes to appoint a commis
sion to investigate the disaster which de
stroyed the Parliament buildings. He
has asked Opposition I-eader Sir Wilfred
Iaurier to name one of three commis
sioners. They will.be armed with far-
reaching authority and will have the do
minion secret service at their disposal.
The investigation will begin at once.
GUARD WASHINGTON.
Capitol Building More Thoroughly Pro
tected Now.
Washington. D. (.. Feb. 5. Alarmed
over the wrecking of the Canadian Par
liament building at Ottawa, presumably
by bomb-pltters, the fon-e of guards at
the I'nited States capitol was increased
yesterday, to guard flgain-t a possible
attempt by a crank to wreck the building
here.
Supt. Elliott Woods, in charge of t'ie
capitol, has issued trineent regulations
to every man on his force. I.at night
the building was searched from basement
to dome. PHir-ia) who are responsible
for the rapitol have never fullv recor-1
ere.) from the sho. k tl ey experienced
wlien Frank Holt planted a tmmb in one
winir of the buil linj last summer.
Capitol employ -s became mil. h alarn'c 1
yesterday w!n th new of the Ottawa
disaster be-arne known. Thev intimat
ed that the effects .f a well pW.t. I
bomb. eph-!ed ilons a scMon of c-;ter
Hoiie of ori:-s. nurht reu't in a ter-
.irath to'!.
srtain preea t tons J.ave been taken
LEG BROKEN BY FALL.
Joseph Senna of Waterbury Center Hurt
While Chopping. '
ENTERS PLEA OF GUILTY.
Joseph Bennett Was Sentenced to Three
Months in County Jail.
Joseph Bennett, who was arrested
Tuesday on a charge of furnishing liquor
illegally, apcared before Magistrate IL
W. Scott in city court this afternoon
and entered a plea of guilty to the com
plaint. On the recommendation of Grand
Juror William Wishart, the respondent
was sentenced to serve three months in
UHq . ...
. n 1 .... . .. . 1 . . -. . u .. :
in.- iwiiiio jitii wiin w iiiHAiniuin sen-
Waterbury, Feb. 5. While chopping
for B. J. Adams on the Watts hill lot
yesterday afternoon Joseph Senna
1- 1.. 4AA A .1 I 1
. v .... ... ...... .... ,rK S liunril, f U1 ... Tl.:. t f ..
He was taken at once to the Fannv-Al- 1. .- J .
len hospital in Winooski, accompanied ? " ' , P V' V " of
by Mr. Adams. Senna lives at Water. ,-".:'. -I'l ai me request
I.:.,- i.. . 1 01 n. a. iioar, sain me
, .iiici piim u3 w wiiu ami one
child.
INSTANTLY KILLED GIRL.
John H. Pierce Then Shot Himelf Fa
tally on Wedding Day.
Wuiglas, Mass.. Feb. 5. Miss In
A. Hoar, said
wished to have the
not guilty remain on
ana requested that be lie given a jury
trial Monday. Accordingly, a jury
was drawn for service Monday, but aft
erward the respondent decided to reverse
his plea. Bennett was accused of buy
ing wliikey for Keuben (lough of
many are ready to concede that lie would
poll exceedingly well, Mr. Carver is quot
ed as saying that ho is not a candidate.
Moreover, ho is Ins own authority for
the statement that no combination of
circumstances could persuade him to
stand as a candidate. For a time the
mentioners were occupied with the name
of W. J. Claip, at present overseer of
the poor, but it is understood that Mr.
Clapp's plana' for the immediate future
do not include an entry into the mayor
alty arena.
To date the mentioners have concerned
themselves principally with the names
quoted in the foregoing paragraphs. Any
summary of political gosisp at this time
would be incomplete without a reference
to the attitude of the present executive
Mayor Langlcy, it is said, is not anxious
to go before the voters for a second
term if it is apparent that any consid
erable section of the electorate is dissat
isfied and wishes to displace him. On the
other hand, it is probable that he would
take a second term if it is tho pleasure
of the people.
Regardless of the selection made in the
citizens' caucus, the nominee must ex
pect opposition from the Socialist party,
if from no other quarter. Consistent
with the policy adopted several vcarg
go of formally pledging support to par
ty men only, the Socialists expect to go
aoout me uusiiicss 01 iioiiuuaiiiig a com
plete slate, as in former years. A meet
ing of the city central committee of the
party was called for Thursday night, but
owing to the absence of some of the
members, the meeting was adjourned
until the evening of Thursday, Feb. 10.
At that time, if tho Socialists follow the
program they now havj in mind, a slata
will 1m? prepared and calls will be issut'd
for ward and city caucuses. A lack of
interest noted in o'Jur circles s?ems
apparent among the Socialists, and for
that reason their own political pot has
not bubbled forth many names. Some
one has put forward F. W. Suitor's name
as u "mentionee" in the second ward,
and Ale W. Ritchie has been mentioned
as a potential ward candidate in io. 4,
although close friends of Mr. Ritchie are
quoted as saying that he would not con
sent to let the party use his name. In I
ward 0. the Socialist field is barren of
"mentionees" at this time. Robert Gor
don, thrice the leader of his party in the
city election, has been suggested as a
mayoralty candidate for the fourth tiny1,
but there are those of his own political
faith who express clear doubt as to
whether his consent can be obtained.
So far as the mentioners are concerned
the present aldermen in wards 2, 4 and fl
are givn full sway. Ward 2 voters ar?
silent, although it :s possible, some say
probable, that Alderman J. A. Healy will
be a candidate. Down in ward 4, city
politics in its general aspects is under
discussion, but the only name to be men
tioned is that of Alderman Edwin
Keast, who will probably run for a sec
ond term. In the sixth ward, Alderman
A. E. Bruce is alsuit the only man who
has not been ignored by the mentioners.
Just now it looks as though he will be
a candidate for re-election.
Constable George L. Morris may be
expected to stand as a candidate for the
tax colleetornhip, ami there is little doubt
that George Parks, the second constable,
will be tendered a renomination. Apart
Washington, D. C, Feb. 5. The Lusi
tania case again to-day is in the fore
front of international problems, occupy
ing the consideration of the Washington
government.
President Wilson and Secretary of
State Lansing carefully went over the
new proposal' presented last night by
Ambassador Von Bernstorff. Until they
have decided, there will be no change in
the virtual deadlock to which the nego
tiations canto weeks ago," and perhaps
not then. Apparently the stumbling
block of the situation is the word, "il-"
legal," as differently interpreted in this
country and Germany.
Only One Obstacle to Argument.
Berlin, Feb. !. The view is enter
tained here that one of the most serious
crises of the war has arisen in connec
tion with the Lusitania case, and that
it is impossible to foresee the outcome
from any indications here. The result)
of the negotiations appears to hinge sole- '
ly on the one word "illegal."
In the way of an agreement between
the United States and Germany stand
only these seven letters' expressing the
conception which President Wilson and
Secretary Lansing insist must be em
bodied in the German formula express
ing regret for the loss of American lives
aboard the Cunarder. The Associated
Press is informed positively and author
ativelv that Germany cannot and will
not designate as illegal the sinking of
liner by any submarine.
Virtually 110 other difficulties in tho
way of settlement remain, .and the new
instructions forwarded to Ambassador
Von Bernstorff on Tuesday contain mere
ly the new formula by which it is hoped
to satisfy Washington without humili
ating this country. Although the sug-
geted sentence, according to a reliable
version, consists of only eight words
and does not contain the word "illegal"
or characterize the sinking of the Lu
sitania as such, it goes otherwise to
the furtherest extent possible toward
meeting American desires.
The state department does not consid
er the general situation surrounding tlie
Lusitania negotiations, which is still de
scribed as confidential and informal, as
any more grave than it has been. Ad- -ministration
officials, while carefully re
fraining from expressing an opinion,
pointed out that it could not be termed a
deadlock, because negotiations are still
under way,
BIG STONE PLANT
TO BE ENLARGED
Presbrey-Coykendall Co. Feel the Need of
More Room and Will Put on
110-Foot Extension.
"I fro,., ....... 1 liMlo romM.n.ra inln tl...
origins! entry of I i,yav9 of ssip an,j rumor, the political
the court records Lit)laion in ,!flrri. js in , ,,. hh ,ie.
pressingly quiet, jt might tie said, when
compared with conditions that have ex
isted in former years a month before
election da v.
PROMINENT IN MIDDLEBCRY.
Ijf '! iri s.nce tie ojt t;- of aiii.; La L:e.
B. Kevser of Schenectady. X. V.. was I " ashington, who was brought from the
sliot and killed here yesterday by John ! "mn,.v J" dy to testily should a
If. Pierce of IVlanson. X. Y who after- i "earing be Held.
wards shot himself, according to the
police. The couple were about to lie
married when Miss Keyser's mother ap
peared and urged her not to po through
with the ceremony. I'hyscians said
Pierce probably would die.
Pierce, who bad been employed in rail
road construction work, r. turned Thurs
day from Schenectady, aiv-ontpanied br
Miss Keyscr. and obtained a marriage
liii'nse bere. Tlie Voiing woman's ni"tli
er arrived later and t
that Pierce bad been
and bad not dtained a divorce. .lviia
Pierre, who was im. the police maid,
ebot the girl through the bead, kiibng
!er intantly. and then f red another
bullet ir.to bis bad. lie was taken t
a hs-ital. test no st'.-irpt was male
i trat the !IIet. as the suri-eons
nired t ther III to ha u of
Robert Towle Passed Away Yesterday at
Age of 64.
Mi.bllcbury. F.k .V Robert Towle.
who ba been ill for five years with
hardening of the arteries, died Friday
'mominir at tiie age of HI years. He was
' lrn in Hemingsford. Canada, and came
Id her danrhter : here when a jonng man. He is sur-
married before vived hv a wife, taa stepdanehtcrs. Miss
Is.i.cUs of this village and Mr.
Dennis Ma-k of Cornwall: a brother.
John Towle of Cornwall, and ais-tcr, Mrs.
l"risci!!a lilns"B of At hoi, Mass. The
fnr-eral will be beld at the house Smi lav
aftern's-n at i oVbuk. Mr. Towle was
f..r mativ tears a proinm.-nt lmirc
The Presbrey-Coykendall company has
practically completed plans for the ma
terial enlargement of its Willey stn-et
stoneshed, already one of the largest and
best equipped manufacturing plants in
the Barre granite belt. For some time
the demands made on tlie space nowr
available have so taxed the concern's fa-
cilities that an annex seemed inevitable.
Heavy mausoleum work is handled in big
orders by the lreshrey-Coykendall com
pany and in the past few years busines
of this kind has increased so rapidly that
conditions at the plant have been crowd
ed to capacity.
Plans call for an extension of 110 feet.
which will conform in material of con
struction and appearance to the me in
shed. The annex will mean more ade
quate facilities for the workmen and
plenty of room for new machinery that
is to be purchased. An order has been
placed for a new traveling rrano to aug
ment the derrick apparatus already in
use and other devices will be introduced
with the completion of "the annex. It
was annaiiinced at the office of the com
pany to-day that work on the annex w ill
lie started as soon as the v.-eather is fa
vorable for building operations. Odh-o
facilities at the plant, it was stated, ara
to lie enlarged also, as a sizeable ann-x
is to be added to the present office.
HAS CONCUSSION.
John Bush of Rutland May Have Frac
ture of SkulL
Rutland. Feb. 5. Suffering w ith con
cussion and a possmie fracture or me
skull, John Bush, employed on the Rich
lumber idi in Manchester, was brought
to the Rutland hospital yesterday. He
had been conscious only part of the
time and much of the time he was de
lirious. Young Bush has b.-en at work as flre
m.in of an engine which is us.-d in haul
ing ..gs from the t"p of the mountain
t 1 he comoan v's mill, near Mam 1.4f r.r
fla n. it He was dis-overe.l hr tlie mn. f
FUNERAL OF RICHARD GIBSON
Held This Afternoon Interment ia Hope
Cemetery.
Funeral services for Richard .ibs.m, a
well known Barre granite cutter, liw4
death at his home,- I" King etreet. on
Wednesday afternoon followed a 10 dava'
illne-s of the grip and complication,
were held at the house this afternoon at
2 o'clock. Rev. K. K. Newell, paster of
the Hcddinfr Methodist church, was the
officiating clergyman, and a sizeable dele
gation from itieitia Indue, knights of
Pythias, to which the deceased belonged,
attended tie funeral, the Pythian service
Wing used at the house. J,r bearers
were: Walter Crifi'n and lio.rge L, Mor
ris. Jons tune friends of the d's ea-ed, the
gineer lying on the floor. The engine j former a brother I'xthian. Ieijrd Tim-
was pi: klr dcta-hed and the man waslniotis. a l-pd! er in la w of Mr. i.tim. R.
rti-hcd to the nidi w here l)r. L. J. Cala- , S. turner. W. W. Parry and Milium
han treated him. He was tnved on a rot j :la. k, members of in itia l!a. 1 lere
t. te ridroot stati'-n and brought to , w as a pro' u-i.n ..f f!"f al t r.tvit. . Inter
Kr.tland. It is thought tiiat be was ment was made in lb pe n meter b.
man of tl.'s Milage, bavins been in la taken with a d:y sp-il or wa injured. 'te remains of Mr. biUm't lit er, w:
bt me. ia un.iij;. ile-l K1H4I jcin ;,
