A
s
-
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
1
,
tl
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
.
'A?
I
illifiimrMl
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SnUATWN IS SERIOUS
OVER LUSITANIA AFFAIR
President Wilson and Secretary Lansing Will Hold Series
of Very Important Conferences-Germany's Refusal to
Disavow Torpedoing of Liners Has Brought Matters to
the Breaking Point German Embassy, However, Takes
More Cheerful View of Situation and Believes That
Understanding Will Be Reached
Washington, Feb. 5 The Lusitania situation is very
grave.
With German-American affairs thus delicate and en
tangled anew, President Wilson was scheduled .ta meet
Secretary of State Lansing today in the first of a series
of all-important conferences to determine America's
future policy toward the Teutons.
The gravity of the case arises from Germany's re
fusal to meet the American demand for a disavowal of
the torpedoing of the giant liner. No decisive step was
planned for today, however.
President Wilson had before him the memorandum
Ambassador Von Bernstorff presented to Secretary Lans
ing yesterday afternoon, wherein was revealed Ger
many's opposition to meeting the disavowal proposal.
Germany stands ready to make further concessions to
avoid a breach in relations between the two nations, but
she will not disavow the incident, holding that such a step
is too drastic.
The confidential report of President Wilson's personal
envoy, Colonel House, now in the president's ' hands, is
understood to say in substance that Teuton public opin
ion is so opposed to an admission of illegality in the case
that the hands of the foreign office are practically tied.
taken oy the administration until Colonel House, now at
Paris, returns here. If the president rules against
further negotiations, it is reported he will await a com
plete report from House before sending any ultimatum
requiring an immediate disavowal, with the only alterna
tive a diplomatic break.
T!ie T.usitnnin ploiiil snbniorgod pulit
iiiil aiiil fonyipssiunul affairs for the
lime boiiiK. White House piigaaeiiients
nave been oin'eiled, mid 1'resnlent
A iison hail (lroipeil his preparedness
tvoik teinpoianiv to plunge uito an an
alysis of the Cleiinnii Anierican situa
tion. Moreover, the realization that Amer
ica is uenrer being embroiled in the
European qinrrel than at any time
siuee the war started "lias aroused an
element of tension in official quarters.
The point has been readied where
there must be a "show down," it is
freely admitted. The administration
has it be known that, with certain de
mands made upon d'ermnny, this gov
ernment will not back down. On the
other hand, (lermany had made it
kiiowu that she refuses the American
terms; this has been revealed in state
ments, intended tor both nations, in
lioiincins; that the Teuton government
can yield no further.
Among officials here, Ambassador
Vnn llcrnstorft' stands alone in viewing
the situntion optimistically, lie insists
that matters are not as serious as the
Washington Authorities regard them.
1'iesident Wilson and Secretary Lans
ing, on the contrary, have let it hecomo
known that th?y consider a crisis in
Cerman-American affairs has been
reached, "
WU1 Confer Again.
A second conference between Von
VriiHtorff and r,.uising was booked for
todnv, but it is understood it has hon
Abe Earth
. -
Von kin git plenty o' "followers if
yen 've got th ' price. If Bui received
coihscience money t'-dny, an' he
enn't imagine who sent it t' htm cnles
ij nu his wife'? mother.
postponed until next week. This is I
taken to mean that the (lennnn envoy I
will await the decision of President
Wilson before making fresh proposals:
or discussing again the terms of Ger
many s latest memorandum.
The optimism of the (lerm.in envoy
is based upon a belief that he can pro
pose a compromise acceptable to Amer
ica, which IJerlin would ratify. Wheth
er his instructions permit him to con
cede more than yesterday's memoran
dum to Lansing showed is unknown.
This memorandum, Lansing said, did
not change the situation.
liernstorff also believes that the
house report will le.d the president to
accept a compromise.
The diplomatic deadlock between
America and Germany arises over th
term "illegal" as applied to the Lusi
tania attack. Jn the absence of inter
national law on submarine attacks
when the Lusitauia was sunk, and due
to tho fact that the Lusitania carried
belligerents and some munitions, Ger
many insists that, even if the attack
was unwarned, it was not illegal. Fur
ther, Germany contends that a subse
quent agreement to warn ships before
torpedoing them does not apply to the
Lusitania situation.
America Insists On "Illegal."
On the other hand, the administra
tion argues that under any law na
tional, international, moral "or humane
the Lusitania torpedoing was illegal.
The demand for a disavowal, while
linked with the demand for admissoin
of illegality is a distinct proposition.
The administration asks Germany to
repudiate disavow the act of ' the
submarine commander for the reason
of its alleged illegality.
While an implied disavowal by ac
knowledgment of the illegality of the
incident might be acceptable," the ad
mission sought is that the attack was
outside the pale of written and unwrit
ten law. Upon this point, an impasse
has been reached. ,
Cannot Afbltrate.
Berlin unofficial reports that arbi
tration of the Question is MiinMtil.:
have ben received unfavorably in the
past, and it is likely renewed suggest
ions will be similiarly regarded. The
administration has maintained that it
cannot arbitrate so grave a question
of national honor and canuot arbitrate
the "wholesale slaughter of Americans
and the sacrifice of innocent and non
combatant neutrals, including women
and children."
While the matter of illegality is a
strictly legal question which could be
arbitrated under some circumstances,
President Wilson insists that the pres
ent case transcends mere technicality.
Jn the circumstances at least another
exchange of notes ia deemed likely. For
even if the president refuses to parley
further, and decided to risk a severance
of diplomatic relations, an ultimatum
will be forwarded as the culminating j
move in the prolonged diplomatic dis -
cussions. It is suppose.! that in such
an event, Cermany would then put the
' i
(.Continued a Paga Thre) I
UNCLE SAM'S NEXT
P
it
;l op growing pumpWu.rK.niri
Washington, Feb. 5 Uncle Sam's
next great land lottery the first for
two years will occur on March 24 at
Alliance, Nebraska, according to an
nouncement by Secretary of tlie Inter
ior Lane. On that date "l 1,000 acres of
irrigated lands on the North riatte ir
rigation projoct will be handed out in
40 ami 80 acre homesteads to tiiosc
lucky in the drawing.
The North Platte project is one of
the oldest and most successful nf the
government's land reclamations in the
arid west. Its great storage reservoir
is held behind the Pathfinder Dam in
Wyoming. The dam is of masonry, and
js one of the largest dams of this type
in the world. Tho more modern gov
ernment dams are built of concrete.
The dam stores 1,025,000 acre-feet of
water. An acre-foot is enough water
to cover one acre a foot deep. The
GUILTLESS OF HER
HUSBANDS DEATH
Jury Returns Verdict After
Several Hours' Spent In
Deliberation
VEBDICT NOT GUILTY
Providence, R. I., Feb. !.
The blood of Dr. C. Franklin
Mohr is not upon the hands of
his widow.
After several hours of deliber
ation, the jury in her trial ac
quitted her of the charge of
murdering him; at the samo
time, however, it held that
Victor Brown and Henry Spell
man, negroes, jointly accused
with lier, were- guilty of
Mohr'a mnrder
Dr. Mohr was shot as he rode in
automobile with Miss Emily Burger
near Providence in August, 1915.
George . Hcalis, negro chauffr jr I
r1.lm.iv. if.i.. . ... '
claimed Mrs. Mohr engaged the negroes
to slay the doctor. This, the defense
denied.
Efforts wore made to furnish a
j-alously motive through picturing
Afohr's attentions to other women.
Then again, the state sought to show
that Mrs. Mohr was after the doctor's
money.
The decision followed an armnre.nt
dnT,Bfr wvr hour, to-
da - T - Inslructon were asked late this
af,ern0OD' 8n"l lnen tn j1" soon
aft,"rwrd brought in its findings. .
Mrs. Mohr was overcome with joy at
the tidings.
' SALEM, OREGON, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1916
GREAT LAND LOTTERY TO
"1
ttllV,''
V; 5
!.
PlUte 'irrigation prJw"lottom, mlernlaU canal on North PlalU project.
North Tlatte i a considerable river, homesteads on this project in the fu
given to high water when the snow is ture. Including private lands, somo
melting in the mountains. Yet the
Pathfinder Dam is large enough to
store over two-thirds of the entire an
nual run-off of the river.
During the freshet ttie excess water
runs down the river from which it is
diverted into the great canals by small
er concrete dams. Then wiien the nor
mal water supply fails the storage res
ervoir is opened up sending water down
the stream-bed to the diversion dams,
'the mam ca.tal is iO miles long and!tn bind easy to urenam. Tin. (n.orn
is now irrigating about 100,000 acres,
in exieni oi imguuie lanus ine ,
North Ifitte is the largest of the gov-1
eminent reclamation projects. The flat
lands arc now literally being irrigated j
from horizon to horizon. As canals are i
extended the government will have!
llfMJJV v,uuv ui'irs IIIU1C IU give Ollt US
Fl
Isadore Greenbaum's Auto
Disputes Right of Way
With Street Car
A r....lnn.l F....nna 1. C...t
jNenr was struck by Isadore Greenbauin's
lauto today and leu the track and wan-
I dered down the street for about HO
! jards before it finally climbed the curb
'and stopped with the front end of tho
car half across the sidewalk. The acci-
dent happened at 12:16 when tho Asy-
lum avenue car was coming down
( hemeketa street on ita return to tuo
city. Mr. Greenbauni was traveling
south on Cottage street. Mr. Green-
baum did not see the atreet car until
he was upon it and the front, end of his
auto struck the rear end of the. street
car. The street car was one of the
single truck type aud it swung around
! from the impact on the single truck as
pivot and started
out across me
i street.
There were seven passengers on the
I car but none were hurl except W. C.
and was taken to his home. The front
lights of the auto and the front springs
were ma,,hel ,n(1 th eni of
the car doubled up when it hit the curb.
The whw!, of the street ear olourhed
through the cement curb and dug
trenches in the parking.
Tho street car was in charge of Mo
torman It. V. Mannas and Conductor l
A. Kobertsoa.
BANKER REYNOLDS DEAD
I-os Angeles t'al., Feb. 5. Buffering
from a complication of ailments, Geo.
M. Reynolds, prosnlftnt f the Contin
ental and Commercial Natrona! Bank
Of Chicago, is dangerously ill today at
the Alexandria hotel. He ia afflicted
with acuet dilation of th heart, bron
chial trouble and threatened with ura
emic poisoning.
BE HELD MARCH 24
f1
JTI 'V,vflT
lav 125,000 acres will be covered bv
irrigation on the north side of the
Noith Platte river alone. On the south
side there arc 200,000 acres awaiting
irrigation which the government will
some day lumish.
hcttlers on the project have been
very successful in general farming, live
slo' k production ami the growing of
potatoes, sugar beets and odier vege-
tubl"s. The climate is healthful and
nient r.hts the farms, but the holders
are required to pay their pro rata
share of tho cost o'f the irrigation
:v oiks, 4.") per acre, in equal payments
extending over twenty years'" time,
Tho second payment, however, is not
required until five years otter miking
PUT I'
I.
E
Mrs. J. R. Hmkle's Skull
Crushed In With Stick of
Wood for Weapon
When .1. I!. Ilinkle entered the rear
door of his home at 740 South 12th
street at about :.'I0 last night he was
conrrontixi oy tne body of his wife ly
ing in ine uucuen wnore sue nad been
killed by repeated blows on the head
with a stick of stove wood. There was
a single small scratch on the face as
if from a finger nail but hor face had
not ben cut to ribbons with a knife as
was reported in a sensational manner
by the morning papers. The scratch on
her face was in front of her right ear
ana was snout two niches long and
barely through the skin.
A deep cut in the back of her head
(Caatianed An Paae Thr.)
I THE WEATHER J
Oregon: To
night and Sun
day rain south
west, rnin or
snow northwest,
snow, east por
tion ; southeast
erly winds. . . .
fl! ill
II HER 01 III
BY lllll iH
0 f flAjf)
PRIT'P TWn
nviuj i iru
RUMANIA IAY ENTER
WAR ON ALLIES' SIDE
United Press Correspondent Asserts That Million Men Are
Now Under Arms and That Last of Balkan Nations to
Become Embroiled Will Be Actually Engaged Early la
March Great Britain Purchases Friendship of Ruman
ians By Large Purchases, of Foodstuffs Convinced
Also of Strength of Allies
By Henry Wood.
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
Rome, Feb. 5. Rumania, hitherto aloof from the strug
gle in the Balkans, is reported in private advices today
to be ready to plunge into the fray on the side of the
' Hies. , . ,
Her army, under a decree issued Thursday, calling the
class of 1896 to the colors in advance, will bring her
mobilization up to nine-tenths of full war strength. More
than a half million sturdy Rumanians are massed on the
Bulgarian and Hungarian frontiers.
Already, Bulgaria has closed the Rumanian frontier,
except at the cities of Oporitose and Pebrugia, as she mis
trusts the intentions of her neighbor Rumania. In this
connection, it is pointed out that no Rumanians are con
centrated on the Russian frontier, lending color to the
reports that Rumania will link her cause with that of
Russia and the entente.
Heavy artillery from Hiimanian1
Ill icit sea ports Is being rushed to the
Hungarian frontier, while at the same
time the Rumanians are fortifying the
rJulgar border, expecting that the Bul
garians will drive against it, if Ru
mania attacks Hunjr.uy.
Several elements have tended to hast
en Rumanian jiartif ipntion on the side
of the allies. First concentration of
Itussians in Gulicia and Ilukowini, and
tho fact that t'no power of tho fcilav of
fensive in Iicssnrabia has partly off
set the Kussinn retreat in May. And,
this has convinced the Rumnniins that
the Slavs are by no means "down and
out."
Second, the arrival of Anglo-French
CANADIAN OFFICIAL
MAKING BIG ROUND-UP
OF SUSPECTED ALIENS
Ottawa, Feb. 5. The greatest round
up of nliens since the beginning of the
war was ordered by the dominion police
today when their men at all jioints
were told to apprehend all foreigners
who left Ottawa tho niglit tne parlia
ment buildings burned.
This step followed closo upon de
struction of the Ottawa parliament
buildings in a fire of mysterious origin,
the fire that did if.iOli.nuo damage to
Grant Holden nnd Graham company
pl.int early today here, and the ap
parent effort of a stranger to reach the
victoria bridge, Montreal, ror wnat
authorities think was a blasting at
tempt.
It is now thought that the supposed
brnlgo plotter lost his life by drown
ing, for his tracks were traced to open
water.
A roundup of foreigners will be made
moro e.isy because railroads nave turn
ed over ticket number and destina
tions of alien passengers.
More Incendiarism.
Ottawa, Ont., Feb. 5. Whilo investi
gation of the parliament building do
stniction by fire was under way, a now
blar.c, believed to be incendiary, early
today destroyed tho w.ir supply plant
of Hrant, Holden and (Irnham company.
Thousands of dollars worth of dom
ing and huvcrsncks. were ruined, but
tho few men in the plant at the time
escnped safely. .
Tho wnti'hman slid he is convinced
that a firebug was responsible.
Cause of Strony'a Arrest.
Windsor, Out.,' Feb. S. Discovery of
a picturu or mo - pHruHiiwiu
buildings in Uifl effects' of C'harlea
Strony, director of French opera, in the
C hicago Grand Opera Co., strengthened
official suspicions today that no was
connected with the fire that wrecked
the structure Thursday night.
Strony, who described himself as a
llelginn musician, -8 years old, la held
hflrn tniiinmiititfA iln f'nllfiwinir hifl B r-
rest last night as he arrived from Ot
tawa on a Can Minn lacific tram, en
route to Chicago.
The musician explained that he had
played before the Duke of C'onaught
Thursday night and had hurried out of
Ottawa to riih Chicago. Authorities
had word from the chief of the domin
ion police that Strony was suspected,
and that bo had hutuned. iu, a Uuxi.b
to the station only two hours otter, the
big fire startei.
, Strony Beleased.
Winder, Out., Fob. 5. After spend
n?1MTQ 0N TRAINS AND NEW
jibr lo stands itvb cents
reinforcements at Salonika has convinc
ed tho Rumanians that an allied offen
sive would cripplo tho liulgars shouM
they attempt to invade Rumania whitfl
the main Rumanian army was engaged
against lfingnry.
Third, the closing of the Rumanian,
border by Bulgaria and the cloning of
t'no northern and western frontier by
Russia on account of troop movements
has practically cut off Rumania from
the world, making it imperative that
she take sides for economic reasons. :
Fourth, England's purchase of 80,000
carloads of Rumanian grain for $50,
000,000 in gold won the support of Ru
manian grain growers because it con
vinced them of the financial strength,
of the allies.
ing the night in j.iil here, venting his
"temperament," Charles Strony. Bel
gian, Chicago Grund Opera man, "Waa
released shortly before noon today
front arrest on suspicion of firing tho
Ottawa parliament buildings. A tele
gram from the chief of dominion po
lics said the evidence against him was
not conclusive and that he had been,
detained n foreigner in order that h
might explain his pretence in Ottawa
when the fire was raging.
Society Interested.
Chicago, Feb. 5. Theatrical and so
ciety leaders tod.iy burned wires to
Windsor, Ontario, in efforts to gain tha
release of Charles Strony, director of
French opera in tho Chicago Grand Op
era company held there on suspicion o(
being tho firebug, who destroyed the)
Ottawa parliament buildings.
His friends regard as ridiculous tho
suspicions of the dominion authorities.
In fact, they said, while Strony looks
like a German, ho is a Belgian, cherish
ing a sincere hatred for the Teutons,
His wife and children are believed to
be detained in Bolgiom by the Germans
so his friends declare he could not b
an anti-ally plotter.
Strony went from hero to conduct
concerts in Montreal, Toronto, Quuheo,
and Ottawa. Because of close connec
tions with the Chicago train at Ottawa,
he aped to the depot in a taxirab when
the parliament was ta its height. This
occurrence, it is believed caused offi
cials to feel that there was some ulter
ior motive for his hsstc.
Attempt to Wreck Bridge.
Montreal, Feb. i. What is believed
to have been an attempt to wreck th -
big Victoria b.-idge was frustrated
early today by troops,,,, They fired on a ',
man, creeping along tne , ice to Ine..
bridge, and then when a search light ' .
bad picked him out cleared, more shot ',
were fired but ho escaped. He had ap
peared previously just before midnight, .
Dot fled when challenged. - '
The bridge is ono of the largest en
the continent. Spanning the St. Lawr
ence river. It is used by th Grand ,
Trunk railway, and by the street rail-,
way and for general traffic.. Since th
war started it has been closely guard-,
ed.
New Yorkr Feb. !J. Export "and te- .;
port1 Irosiilea between the Unite
States and South America totalled
$453,000,000 last year, the National
City Dank estimates, Tais is $92,000,-
000 beyond tha lest, previous record.
