One Cent
NO. 3703. - WEA1TM-FAIt WASUMiGTON D. C., SUNDAY, DEIFEMIR 10, 1914. ONE CENT
WILSON ENJOYS
RIOT OF FUN AT
GRIDIRON FEAST
Campaign Figures Form Butt
of Jokes in Uproari
ous Skits.
4Ms w 1161
But "Congresswoman" Is Unveiled and
Proves to Be Reportorial
Neophyte.
asie, let as has a "n th.
No satter who' aleted;
Our tml let W M .
E'en though we be =dseted.
Jew tAght we'll merry, merry be
per tondght we'll "Merry. erry be,,:
For tonigbt we'll merry, merry be,
Ow worrie sow ae over.
Merry indeed were the guests of The
rdiron Club at the December dinner
given last night at the New Willard
Hotel.
,4 The President o the United States,
with Ambassadors. Ministers from for
eign countries, Justices of the Supreme
'ourt, Senators, Representatives, finan
ciers and men prominent in all walks of
life had a jolly time, forgetting in the
four hours of harmless fun and frivolity
the worries of ifte..
The large ball-room of the New Willard
never looked prettier. Panels of Ameri
can Beauty roses. banks of orchids and
magnificent chrysanthemums blended in
to one beautiful harmonious color effect.
- The whole sc'heme was a masterpiece of
Stmall's artistic skill.
The various skits bore on the late cam
paign and prominent personages in all
parties were haNdled. to a polite way,
hits of wit and humor.
The President of the United States
was not excepted and his enjoyment of
alI that was said and done was mani
r't to all present.
Immediately after the soup the fun be
Ean and a member of the club appeared
in the well. addressing President Strayer
with: "Mr. President, The Committee
on Initiation and Inauguration of The
Gridiron Club desire to hold the first ses
sion of the sixty-fifth Congress here to
night to arrange some very important
preliminary matters:,
Brass Band Leads.
A brass band headed by a member
uniformed as a real drum major entered
followed by the committee Impersonating
the clerk of the House and various Rep
resentatives.
The .Ierk called the House to order and
proceeded with the election of a Speaker.
On roll call Mr. Clark received 215 votes
Mr. Mann 21 scattering four.
4 "Gusaie Gardner" moved a siupension
of the rules and both were delared elect
ed as Speakers.
The swearing in of the new members
followed and when Montana was reached
a member of the club dressed as an up
to-date woman stood up and responded
to the name of Miss Rankin.
Numerous objections were raised, but
'he woman member was sworn. A mem
ber of the club at this point rusher up
to Miss Rankin. pulls off her - wig and
says: "This is no woman? This is Ar
thur S. Henning. of the Chicago Tribune.
ie was not elected to Congress but to
membership In The Gridiron Club.
President' of Club-"Why this masque
rade, young man? Would you rather be
a member of The Gridiron Club than a
member of Congress?"
".Fd rather be a member of The Grid
iron Club than any woman on earth,"
said the new member.
Made a Member.
"On that statement I declare you a
member of The Grdiron Club."
At this point the guests of the Grid
iron Club were requested to imqgine
themselves before the public square at
Kidderville, Kan., on some morning in
October last. For the benefit of those
who were Inclined to believe this a fictit!
ous town, it wa5 told that there really
is such a place as Kidderville, Kas.
"Women and men of KIdderville,"
spoke the -mayor. "I've just been told
by the telegraph operator that the
Millinery Special now towering the coun
try, for to view the scenery and to be
seen by the common people, is agoin' to
,top here for fifteen minutes this mornin'.
It's entirely a woman's party. These
ladles come from Fifth Avenoo, Noo
York City, which runs right down -o
W.all street, and from Newport. which
is a sort of down-East Chautauqua for
the idle rich, near as I can make out.
CO-'('fINL"Mz ON PAGE TEN.
ACCUSED OF STEALING,
LEAPS TO HIS DEATH
President of Wagner Trading Company
Takes Life in Brooklyne
fay the Isternatiemal News Service.)
New York. Dec. 9.-Christopher Wag
ner, president of the Wagner Trading
Company, leaped from the fourth floor
of the Montauk Club, Brooklyn, tonight
rather than submit to arrest. His death
was instantaneous, He was accused of
stealing a check for $1,134.
Detective Vaughan and Henry Meyer
berg, viep president of the Wagner Trad
p. ing Company, went to Wagner's rooms
on the fifth floor of the clubhouse about
7o'clock. Wagner was found clad In
.'pSMaL
Walner dressed hastily and the tr1e
'repared to go to the police station. They
msed the stairway instead of the elevater.
)n the fourth floor, Wagner asked per'
mission to enter a wash room. Vaugbaa
ceasented, A moment after Wagnr
closed the door, Vaughan regretted hava
lng left Wagner, He pushed the door
open, only to see Wagner climbing over
a ldw guard rail on the balcony outside
the window. Whiie the two 'men stood
within ten feet of him.' utterly unable
to prevent it, Wapner alid over the
railing,
yAT OF U, . , HIP ii DouT.
- ew York. Dec. t.-Unoe anytoday
ctR louded the repeted shnkrmg in the
o tthe steamer Virgbnta
the ne' thought to have gone down,
hdno advice. today concerning her, The
virginia asbudf-Geawtha
-sas wamm
Pay-aise Campaiga
Develbpumts of Day
Developments yesterday in the
movement for Increased salaries
for-government employes:
1-Plans made for big mass meet
Ing in District to disease need for
higher wages. .
2-Representative LAve, of Mouth
Coselina. chairman of Roese Com
mittee an Agriculture, declares in
favor of higher salrIes.'
5-Senators Robinson, Cummins.
Thompson. of Kansas; Thomas.
Jones, of Washington; Smith. of
Arizona; Shields, Lee, of Maryland;
Shaftoith, of Colorado; Stem and
Wali join members of Congress
who,favor better pay for govern
sset employes.
4-Federal Employes' Union pre
pares petition and bill embodying
Its plan for graded increases, for
presentation to Congress next
week.
&-Rev. Dr. Abram Simon jo
the list of clergymen who believe
Federal workers should receive re
lief from the high cost of living
in Increased compensation.
PAY PLEA BACKED
BY 38,000 UNIONS
Plans for Mass Meeting to Aid
U. S. Employes in Com
mittee's Hands.
More than 38,000 local labor unions af
filiated with the American Federation of
Lagor. will take up the fight of the
government employes for Increased
salaries. and plans for a big mass meet
ing to be held in the District and urge
action at the present session of Congress.
Theep were developments in the higher
wage Jnovement yesterday.
Ifhe mass meeting wIll be held within
ten da.. probably in Convention Hall,
and Invitations will be extended to mem
bers of Congress, Cabinet offcers and
prominent citizens to address the gath
ering. Plans for this meeting are being
made by a committee headed by E. t.
Cogan. The committee will meet in the
A. F. of . building tomorrow night.
The 3N.000 or more locals affiliated with
the A. F. of L. were asked tq adopt reso
lutions endorsing the movement and In
dividual members were requested to so
licit the support of their members of
Congress for the Federal workers.
Distribution of petitions which will be
signed and presented to the President
started yesterday under the direction of
E. J. Newnyer. The petitions point out
CONTINtED ON PACE FIV.
1600,0 ARE IN JAWS
OF LOAN-SHARK TRUST
Chicago Investigator Tells How Women
Agents Lure on Usury Victims.
Ily the Internatiomal News service.)
Chicago. Dec. .-One hundred and sixty
thousand persons are in the grip of a loan
shark trust, a powerful organization for
mutual protection and benefit that is
complete with mystic words, signs and
numbers, according to the report to the
public welfare department of Mrs. Louise
Osborne Rowe. an investigator, made pub
lic today.
The various companies in the "usuary
trust" exchange all available Information
regarding prospective borrowers, the re
port says, and thus in a few hours after
an application is received the needy one
either gets the money or Is tutned down.
The business done by the 139 agencies
said to be banded together, amounts to
~11.800,000 annually.
Women predominate among heads of
agencies, the report adds, and women are
used to lure the victim to borrow beyond
his needs and later to harass those who
do not meet their obligations promptlly.
TEUTON RAIDER CAUSES
TERROR IN ATLANTIC
One British Vessel Held Up-U-Boat
Reported Near U. S.
(By the Internatieal News Service.)
London, Dec. 9.-A German raider.
similar to the famous Moewe, or
sibly that ship, has made its appear
ance in the North Atlantic. -
The captain of a British vessel, the
name of which was withheld arrived
here today and reported that the mys
terious raider had been sighted' hold
ing up an unidentified ship in the North
Atlantic. The captain, it was said, did
not wait for detafis, but, fled for safety.
New York, Dec. 9.-Fresh reports of the
presence of a German submarine off
the coast led to unusual precautions
on the part of trans-Atlantic liners leav
ing this port today. The United States
flag was painted bn both sides of the
American liner St. LouIs' bull and elec
tric lights were strung around the flags
so that they could be plainly seen at
night. .
The French liner Espagne made a quicke
dash to see through fog and rain, It
was reported that she would mount gums
fore and aft when she got beyond the
three-mile limit. , *
WRIES FAEB; BURNS NOME,
Chicago. Dec. 3.-The kinderkarte
which she Started after her grauantil
was a financial failure, so Mrs. Eliehh
MlcGowan, beautiful and acomplisheds, set
her home 'on lire to get Sl,500 ilhurance,
according to her confession to the piolise
today. Ad a result warrants have been
issued for Leroy Trauger, an insuranee
agent, and Villiam P. Brennan, a real
estate dealer. whom she ancus.. of sug
gesting the plan as a way to make east
money.
"Mand ofteSky. fetiv De 1th.
e shi~ton p, ID. dhty, due
F- .
IJ
44,
The Government Employe. rn the New York world
NEW U-BOAT NOTEI Another Peace Voyage GREECE IS DEFIANT
Urged by W. . Bryan
President to Demand Disa- Reported Mobilizing Army.;
48 In.ter..tin.. Nes Serviee..
.VOWa of Attacks. , St. 110is M., Dec. 9.-A resolu- Epect Teuton Drive.
---..---tion urging that another peace ex
President tson, through Sert$ j pedlItIon, similar to that fathered I(By #be International News servicej
State Lansli.g, soon will rmake demnandms by llenry Ford, he sent to Europe. -Ainsterdam, Ilec. 9.--History-enaking
upon Germany that submarine attacks w-as: introduced at this afternoon's eventS, are 00101ming to Pams ti Greece. Like
upon the steamers Marina and #rabia session of the Federal Council of shell,- splinters fatilbag outside a be-!
be disavowed and the submarine com- Churches of Christ in America af- ileagnered 011tY. fragments of news are
maher puised.itwa lernd ystr- ter the plan had been suggested by jshooting across the cable 'ind radio lanes
md. uihe.i asland etr William Jennings Bryan in a of Europe from various big points in the
The decision to take this action was speech. The resolution was sent INear Edast. They tell about a" much of
sai tobebasd poninormtin tat to thle committee. .%hat is really happening in thle Ifellenic
Grato bitaned pepainformtion enthat ryan asked that Protestant, kingdomru s 'a shell splinter ,anl tell of
compte detana to thpin tovrnment f th catholic and Jewish churches jn h-prgssof thle bombardments.
G-moermanl tha thgerbiat appee in the movement. Thle etn ors in Athier.s and Saloniki are
and maneuveas ulike a British transport +n--nted staf co respondent," of th enf
A note formatly demanding disavowa lcasn iger rivLrytchey Qae is
and also Informing Germany that the he watchwd n "atces" uantitap
U1nited Staten can not excuse furthe aisedD byT therLualtONa
"mistakes" of submarine commanders. 'O pro-ally, pro-Germnan andi pro-Greek,
receiving the personal consideration o though very.N little of the latter, owing to
President Wilson and to expected to bew theO O E TWA ,11 vaguieress of the accepted definition
lftwrded shortly to Ambassador Gerard 'If t hat character.
in Brlin for delivery to the foreign of-i Only two facts are universally con
fice. Wiliham Bayard Hale, Fresh from I eded and .uthenticatedl:
Presdent Wilson and Secretary Lansing, 'I" Greece is In thec grip of anl a1;1-d
have, since receiving final Information on Somme Front, Sends Open Letter. bl1ockade.' It bc-mne Pfrective %terdav
the Marina,. been "more firmly convinced' morning. 1n 11--A than three ivo:ks. it
that further action was essential. -this blockade Is not lifted, star, *tIn wIlI
Only two courses were given seriou -A Williaan iayard Hlale. author of a biog- stalk throuvh ith-- land of the Hel1ITle'es
constderation. They were: raphy of Woodrow Wilson, in an open The second fac~t is that In spite of this
Breaking of diplomatic relations, letter addressed to the President, calls "hunger %;ar'' against his peopl.. King
Demnd fo dsaowa, ithwan- upon him to set in motion executive andt onstanIn contmnues steadfastl, detiant.
Ing that further "mistakes'' would dilmtemcieyt rn bu h le is mobilizing his army. esm dat
not e cuntngned.ending of the war in Europe. The. letter -5.m0 strong.
Germany has anticipated the course of I to th. Sne brtwiefnt wsher e Th- ,lee inviud able ncl nt drawnevry-:s
this government and Is already outlining -hors Of wA.ar. inspired him to seek some whreont n thissa e ntnt muntrirs.1.thtc
her course of action. It was believed. means olf bringing about peace. from ti Ist ofig affairs.sa tat Ten
Mr. IHa],. filed the letter at The Hague, tantdie afguint upon aniearly Teu
YothSoos ef ftr cable charges prepaid. but the Britiah doniadr Repagaithatt aelit ho- aissw
Youth ShoobSelf After censor. stopped its transmission. Man' by thecnrlPws htuhadiv
f ro the letter have reached this is about to he nuesd. and possibl rn
of the scenes at Somme he uses thisthwaaeenrlycdid
Alexandria. Va., Dec. 9.-Wallace descriptive phrase: "These stret-hing
Adams. 18 years old. a machinist of DelI miles of landscape, stricken, smitten, for- PACKETS CRASH; PANIC ENSUES.
Ray, Alexandria County, Va., shot him- gotten of God and accursed of men."|
-elf In the left shoulder about' 11 o'clock "I tpossible that It is within the 'Gallipolis. Ohio. Dec. 9.-Panic reigned
tonight in front of the home of Miss Cor- pow'Rler iof one man to end this hideous for a s ho0rt tim e today on board the PItt4
nella Webber, 319 North St. Asaph atret thing?" asks Mr. Hale, and he answer.: nurgh and ha rleston packet Tell City.
He was removed to Alexandria Ho,- "Ibeive it is so.-- hen it collided wt h oa aktC
Pital and attended by Dr. N. Delaney Mri. Hale accuses Mir. Lloyd George of . kowyrn the harf vesl hee,,nearly,
The police say Adama shot himself fo1_- "flinginz insult Into the teeth of thle ;-Ikngteatr ee.Thcolsn
lowing*' a quarrel with his sweetheart. Presidents and the Pope... ocrre Te aCbidin wnd nd sow-l
The young man's condition is not re- "This war is at a standsntill." he argues. str.TeTl8iy a o eiul
gardled as serious, a nd concludes with the question: "In not damaged. but the Bowyer had to bie tow
this the moment to Intervene?.. ed to dry dock.
PAMIN AXAz yW. STRUCK BY CAR; DIES. Mi CE XA SHiOT.
Berlin (via Sayville wireless), Dec. 9.- Clevelanhd. Ohio, Dec. 9.--J. M. Mackin
Durin the disorders iIn Athens on De- IMary Campbell. 78 Years old. residmng tosh, manager of the local branch of tho
cemn I. allied warships bombarded the 'at 913 H street northwest, who wag struck Prudential Life Insurance Company of
city and shells fell in the courtyard of bya ar at Tenth and G streets on De- America, wag shot and probably fatally
King Conistantine's palace, says an item eme 4, died at Emergency Hospital wounded today In his office. Felix
given out by thi Overseas News Agency about 11.30 o'clock last night from trac- Schmutshow, a discharged employe, was
today. ture of the skull n'.d brudge- larrested charged with the crime.
9171
NEXTUNDA'S HEA D -
ase vrn T heG ven e t m lod rayt. e T~Wi
Dritms Not to 1mev
Shd Contrct Hue
By itesmatienal News seevite.
Toronto. Dec. 9.-Within sx
months fI now, at the latest.
England will not order another
Ouished shell in the United States.
By that time British shell contracts
with American manufacturers will
have expired. No renewal will be
made.
Announcement to this effect was
made today by J. W. Flavelle.
chairman of the imperial munitions
board for Canada, u'pon his return
from England. where he was for
nine weeks conferring with the
British munitions minister.
The discontinuance of shell con
tracts in the United States signi
fes a shifting of the main task of
supplying munitions for Great
Britain to Canada.
Raw materials, such as copper.
brass and steel. will continue to be
bought in the United States.
WALDORF ASTOR
SLATED FOR JOB
Expected to Get Undersecre
taryship in George's New
Government.
(By the internatiemel News serviee.)
London, Iw. 9.-Waldorf Astor, son of
William Waldorf Astor, who in 1899 be
came a naturalized British subject, was
tonight said to be slated for an under
secretaryship in the govertiment now be
ing formed by Premier L:oyd George.
Waldorf Astor is a member of Parlia
ment and is connected with the Pall Mall
Gazette and Observer. He is a conserva
tive and represents Plymouth. He has
long taken active part in political affairs
nd ani undersecretary, traditionally
one of the steps on the ladder to a cab-:
inet seat, is believed to be one of his
long cherished ambitions.
Latest reports tonight from sources
close to the new premier agreed that
these will be his principals aides:
Chancellor of the exchequer. Bonar;
Law; lord chancellor. Sir Robert Flinley;
itst :ord of the admiralt>. Sir Edward
Carson; home secretar.. G,eorge (ave;
foreign se-retary. A. J. Balfour; minister.
for colonies, Walter Long; secrsary for
war. Lord Derby; India. AusteY ham.:
berlain; munitions, Christopher Addison.
labor. Arthur Henderson; board of trade,
Sir Albert Stanley; air service. Lord Cur
zon.
Lord Milner is said to he slated for
the office of food controller. Sir Gil
bert Parker. it is report'd will hI of
fried an uidersecretaryship.
The cabinet which is expected to be
called together for me.tings only 11 tnIm
portent decisions. will ie composed off
Lloyd George. Sir Edward Carson. Bonar
Law. Christopher Addison and Arthur
Henderson. Two other ministers not
members of the eshinet are exleted toi
he added to this list.
Those among the Liberal leaders who
are unable to follow fornier Premier As
tuith in burying their personal hitter
ness for the sake of national unity to
day pointed to the irons of circumstances
presented by the fact that Lloyd George
is to be head of the war council. t
as his objection to the Idea 1f fte
premier-then Asquith-heing a memner
of the war council that led to the wh-1i
governmental re-onstruction.
CARRANZA RATIFES
BORDER AiREEMENT
Unofficial News of First Chief's Action
- Reaches Capital.
I'nonlicial informaiiitin iNt Iin. t -
ranza has ratified te i t r-l signed .It
Atlantic (ity by the Amerwan-Mxican
commission reached the State Ilepart
ment last night. tiffleials Rerlined to,
reveal the source (.f their Information.
but declared -the report was thoroughly
credited.
Alb-to J. Pani. according It this in
formation, should rca i W M ashingt
Tuesday or Wednesday with the piotocoI
Indorsed by the First Chief. ton this ac
count. the scheduled meetng of the c
mission Monday again will Ie postponed.
The chief oijection of the i'onstit- I
tnonalisis. it was supposed at the ltime
the T Itocol was si ned. was to the Pr .
ison I r withdra sal of the Pershiii
column 1 wit hitt forty days after oni-l
tions in Mexico warranted. I
Reneweid Villa activities are undetstoodi
to have changed Carranza's attitude on
this phase of the complex proiem.
President Wilson will await formal a
surance of Varranza's ratification ,f the!
pr tocol before he takes an. similar
steps.
POOR, POOR DEVILFISH.
New York. Dec. 9.-The devil fish of
the Caribbean waters will next claim the
attenlon of Col. Theodore Roosevelt. it
was reported here today. The Colord is
said to have agreed to join the expedition
of Prof. Russell J7. C'oles, naturaliet. for
a search of southern waters which will
start next March. The Colonel himself
refused to discuss his- plans.
"They're personal tnatters." hg said.
and as such I don't care to discuss
them.
APPROVE XA-P0WR BL.
Berlin . (via Sayville wireless). Dec.I
9.-Dr. Haas, a member of the Reich
stag and an oficlal in the newr gov
ernent of Pgland. has diven his un
ualified indorsement of the auxiliar,
natlpnal service bill (man-Dower meas
ure) by *hich all the industriat forces:
of Germany will be mebilised.
"This bill is new proof of, Germany's
gift for organizatIon." said he. "It is
proof of the whole nation's readiness
to mobilize all civic forces forn
Outrkeat Se.vie IS sdtmeee.
Ever. sinneon tha sMWm alme.:
U sS. HELPLESS
IN PRICE AGHT;
BOYCOTT URGED
Federal District Attorney Say
Nation-Wide Ban on Costly
Foods Only Remedy.
LAWS HELD INADEQUATE
Anderson Usts Cheap Pr~L-eta, bo Be
Purchased in Ca-paign Againse
Speculators.
The Department of Justine bAt siht
practically confesse its helplessness to
reducing the coat of living by legal pro
cess, and appealed to the people of the
I'nited States to join in a nation-wide
boycott against high-priced foods.
Federal District Attorney George W.
Anderson, of Boston, chief food price in
Vestigator for the government. in a state
rnent declared that if the people of the
ountry would co-operate in boyettig
he foods which the speculators have run
up to peak prices, the back of the hig
.ost of living will break within a week
and prices will come tumbling to normaL
The measure advocated by Mr. Ander
ion constitutes probably the hugest boy
,oft declaration in the history of the
Luuntry.
Peeds that 3Sheld me Beaght.
After consulting with Secretary ot
Ag4riculture Houston and his scientinc as
tistants. Mr. Anderson declared that the
people should buy such foods as rice. corn
eal and other highly nutritive but low
rriced commodities. The same advice is
tiven by Dr. Harvey W. Wiley. one et
he foremost food experts in the country.
D)r. Wik-y says the United State. wastes
mnough food to support Germany. ar.d ad
vocates munIcipal food dispensaries to
:ut the living cost.
Declaration of the nation-wide hoy-ott
by the government's chief investigator
,ill not halt proceedings against speco
ators. however. Attorney General Gret
sry yesterday gave Mr. Anderson frve
rein in ordr ng grand jury investiga.
'ions. and M.J. Anderson announced that
be would call such inquiries by the mid
ile of next week in New York. Chicago
ind Detroit. Other grand jury poceed
ngs may be expected In Cleveland, In
fianapolis. Minneapolis, Kansas City and
3ther Middle Western pointas.
Frank M. Swacker ils reabined Yee.
erday by Mr. Gregory as a spei as
sistant In charge of the New York City
inquiry which will turn largely on the
,oal supply. Mr. Swa e s im
lion as an invesgators in 1 New Haves
cases in which he was ain b the
goveltument.
Laws MeMl laiedeuee.
Mr. Anderson said last night that the
people should not expect too much to be
ione In the way of apprehtening apecu
atore. He declared that the laws unds r
.-hich proceedings can be instituted are
Inadequate and strongly Intimated that
hief reliance for relief from the pre,
ent food prire saituation must come from
a carrying out of the boycott for which
he appealed.
Considerable evidence has been pro
cured. said Mr. Andrews, regarding the
3per ation of the food and coal car sharks.
Most of them are brokers in large cities.
Their method Is to order car lo.ds of
'or' or food. have it shipped to within
a short distance of their city and then
told It there, paying car demirrage if
necessary. until prices rise. Then the
ar are brought in and the freight aid
at incr-as-d prices. says Mr. Anderson
Iirs advice is- "Buy nothing at par
prices c ur only the cheap food..
OERNANS TAKE 79,U0
IN EliHT-DAY DRIVE
Russo-Rumanian Forces Begin Another
Offensive in Carpathians.
(By the Interaettoima News %ens-iee.
.\nt- rdam. De-. P-The epture of
~6, Rimanianis sine Deceernh,: 1-aq
average of more than t. daily for eight
days-was announed by the Berlin %ar
office today Thc military booty in that
period inihided 1F4 , annon and 121 in
chine guns.
These figures. ha-d :pon a superfle:I
elearing up of ,hc battlefield around
It-,harest." the I-in Wtatement adds.
"show to what m1g gree ti Rumaniani
armny is demoralized."
The Rumanian tosses in dead an1
w-ounded. it is said, are in proportion
to the number of prisoners.
The Russo-Rumanian fores are r
treating "allt aong the line" bef-e VF'
kenha yn' rght wing and tiie *ai.li
advancing DIaiube army." Berlin an
nouneed.
The Russians have launched another
offensive. evidently on a large scale. in
the wooded Carpathians. Furious on
slaughts throughout day and right
with important effective. have repulted
in local gains for the attackers.
The German war office claims the
terrain gained was without proportion to
the bloody sacrifice, involved.
Petrograd reports the occupation of two
heights In the Putna Valley, prisoners
being taken.
FOUND DEAD WITH GIEL BRIDE.
Milwaukee.V WIs. Dec. 5.-Borrowing a
friend's automobile. David Bersansky. ??.
drove pretty Elva iaup, i8. to whom he
was secretly margied In September, to
an unfrequented road near the Milwaukee
Country Club early today. Several hours
later their hodies were found In the car
and on the automobIle floor a revolver
with four unexploded cartridges.
The girl was about to become a moother.
The police suspect eIther a suicide pact oc
that Bermasky killed her and then shot
himself.
IEl9EERGimE YEA*8.
Thompson Falls. Mont., Dec. 5.-MIst
Fxiith Colby. newspaper reporter, today
wap sentenced to serve ten yearn in the
State penitentiary by Judge Mceunlee. e
for the murder of A. C. Thamm., a pen.
tician here, last September.
Inrede Emp!Cef Meresa via Assee
Coast Line. 3 all-steel electric hte4
trains sity. IWS6 New Testrnge
44,.
