Ssnn.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and coldtr to-day; dlminUhing
northwest wind; to-morrow fair.
Hlghett temperature yesterday, 49; loweit, 35.
Detailed weather, mMl and marine report on peg 11.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 101.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1916. CopirrlffM. 11, by the Bun Printtng and VubUtMng Allocation.
60 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
BRYAN BELIEVESI'Xp!
HE'LL BE PARTY
CHOICE IN 1920
Wants to 6c Named by Demo
crats on Top of Moral
Wave Prohibition.
CUKK HIS CHIEF RIVAL
Saffian' and Progressive
Movement x Cited as Favora
ble for Commoner.
WaaittNUTOM, Pec. .William J.
Brian Is secretly nursing the hope that
aelltlcal events wilt so shape thcmstlvee
la the next four yean that the Demo
cratic parly In 10SO nil! demand him
li Iti nominee. Mr. Bryan'a friends are
htilttent that the Commoner hat no In
ttntlon i'f announcing himself aa an
Ktlte candidate, lie wants the nomina
tion to come to him on top ot a groat
moral wave. That moral "wave, he
tllnkn, will be prohibition.
But although Mr. Uryan will not be
an active candidate, according to hla
friends. In the shaping of political poll
etea In the next few years he expects
ta lake a leading part, with the result,
all friends Isslleve. that tha nomination
fiur years hence will come to him ns
tie protagonist of the principles which
at that tlmo Mill be uppermost In the
mind of the reonle.
With the removal of Woodrow Wilson I
from the Democratic list of available t
Presidential candidates, air. Hryan haa 1
suddenly come to tho foie again, and j
Hit possibility or nis assuming: nts via
(imilUr role Is agitating many Demo
crats here. The preliminaries of a
pieoonventlon Presidential buttle are aU
trijn laid shortly after a Presidential
lection. Allhoifgh there are others who
are supposed to be nursing similar hopes
to Mr. ltrjan'e, the latter has taken
election to brln Mr.
lo the fore and to cause many to doubt '
that he Is to remain In the class of '
political "has beens. They are:
Leader of the Uraa.
aoVnced a political platform which has ' elghty-one candidates November 7. while ""T.F"? . ..I'l r" Ji niT v? i.Y...h MMt combination. In restraint of trade, constitution of the
Ki iha rtpiArL lattfi iieaa t atn. k iu in ine lower iinunff. me leacue rircieu : ... .. . vi m-ii- i'uiiiifiiy nr. wnirn nm
Muted en conservative Democrats toln the Hcnate. with twenty-five members ; llU, tthi... ul. the mm. Tn fermera 1.000 were present Lloyd Oeorge. Am
HI up and take notice. Several things 1 elected this year, eighteen of the new p,.., ptoiwilj. kiT n T.m furion. Lord Mllner
iirj an once more .
(I) The astonishing spread of the majority on the State Supreme bench fa
prohibition movement a Ith which Mr. J vorable to Its alms.
Bran years ago conspicuously Identified Ue organization of the legislature
klmrelf until ho Is now the leader of h' It assembles at Bismarck this i win
those seeking to nuk-i thla question u.r J Prty lines will be abandoned,
jreit politl a Issuel (1) the Increase In recording to plan, and the league mem
t:i(lMt power of Western Slatea and b w' hold lr uwn caucus and
iti. ,i...ir..n., ,i,, ii,,.. uii.. in make their own alute of officers.
rainMnatlon wish the South and border'
"st " (SV the I
, haa enfran-
'"'1
S ales can defeat the K
itffr.v ninl'lm.lil Mtl.lft.
"
thled more than 4,000.000-women voters,
i. ,m. ,i i..i
In thirteen Ptatcs. giving them the bal
ance of jiower In those States and which
ky 1520 may control several more
ftiln. (t) the Progressive movement,
of which Mr. Bryan's followers contend
he sas the earliest apostle and which.
they assert, now plainly dominates the J
. utiiij ill riimiim vvillinn. iu iiiv vw,i-
ililnnn nrevlllniF whmi Mr. Ilrvsn ran
before.
All of there clrsutnstances, even In the
Dinlon of many conservatives, plainly
differentiate political conditions to-day
fioni what they were when Mr. llryan
met his disastrous defeats. There are
many men In the Democratic party In
ar.d oisi of i.'ongres. who hive never got
over tliclr devotion to Mr. Tlryan. There
hai t-eeu among them since election a
noticeable recrudesence of former hopes.
And time Is every reason to believe
thai their leader shares tn them. Al
though new leader may appear In
the next four jears the only one at
preient whom they have to fear seems
to U champ Clark. Speaker Clark would
like lo he nominated next time. Speaker
Cnik'n friends have not overlooked a
lode point. They were busy even be
for the elecil n. They reasoned that
sr.Mher President Wilson were reelected
or not Speaker Clark would be a forml
d ihl. i.,mdlitate If he permit ted his name
in hi- used, They assumed that 15 Mr.
Wilt m weip reelected h would not
seek a third term. Tliey did not expect
in i seek ;i M-coiid term in view of
thr- n.vi more platform.
."penJier Clark will be 70 years eld
In JiHrOi. lOl'O He n HI have nttalncd
the .Molted age of "three score and
ten" befoie t ) io next national Demo
catlr convention meets. Hut the
r'P'ikei- la cscillent health, and his
friends belli e he will be physically fit
lour cars from now.
narked by Hearst,
Vl-'JIlnni It. Hearst Is credited with
J'iriK aitlve In the Clark movement.
It hnt i,-n been suggested by some
of the rbirk adherents that the ticket
"Jlrhl 1,0 niado to read "Clark and
Hnrt ' It is commonly accepted here
that .Mr Ifeaist's money and his ad
TtH ng facilities will be lnhlnd the
Hark inuement. Speaker Clark de-'l!in-s
to diicusi the possibility of his
blng -i candidate for President four
eai from now. He Is leaving the mat
tr entirely in the bands of his friends.
Hut is generally understood In the
Concri-n. onal circle that If any one
thlnir u rn calculated to Inspire the
Speaker in be n candidate It would be
le ,.,, nl (nr jr Krj.,,1,,
hp'V.er Chirk his not overcome his
'"ehiig of rueritment toward Mr. Hryan
n a.-, on ,t of Hie events nt the Baltl
'nor n , t.,iin. II'.- frela that he lost
Me iiominatlnii solely because of Mr.
BrJans tnuchlnatlons. He Is not likely
I'' remain unlet while the Com
moner goes forward with hla plana for
capturing the nomination.
Friends of William J. nryan In the
"mute und House admit that there la a
piovetnent to nominate him In 1K0. But
hey insist that It la "spontaneous."
They me not ready to admit that there
any organised movement to promote
ih inn-, of Mr Hrvan. Tha d nner at
In Lsfayette Hotel here a few ere
Hint. u(o. which started In a modest
ort of way, developed Into a genuine
Bryan boom.
Itepresentatlve Warren Worth Bailey
, T Pennsylvania, who waa) defeated for
Selection on Ida record aa a pacifist and
free trader, started the flret real en
thusiasm at the dinner when he; recalled
that he had directed the editorial depart
""ill of hla .newspaper, the JohUaUam
Otmocrni. to float the paaae sat WlHUaa
. Bryan for President the mernlaaT after
the defeat of Altoa &V rariaer tee- rtmh'
ni, air,
BUYING SHELLS HERE
Canada Hereafter Must Supply
Ammunition, 8aya Do
minion Official.
Toronto, OrtL, Dec . English ahell
contracts In tha United Btatea virtually
all run out within six months, and most
or thtm within three months after the
first of tha year ana will not be re
newed. It was announced here to-day by
Munitions Board for Canada. Thla will
inrraaao Canada's responsibilities In the
future and Canadian munitions manu
facturers will be expected to fulfil their
contracts for 1117, he said.
Mr. Flavelle has been abroad ntn
weeks consulting with the Minister of
Munitions and his assistants, and this l
announcement waa accepted here aa the
message of Great Britain to the Do
minion. "Of course Britain will still continue
to purchase copper, brass, steel ami other
raw materials from the Hlatesj," he said,
"but aha will not purchase any more fin
ished shells. The Minister considers
that two ycarr probation Is surtlelent
and will expect Canada to fulfil the
promises ahe made for munitions In 1917.
In fact It would b a grave blunder If
the contracts wire not fulfilled. Canada
la still behind with her deliveries."
He added that few people realise what
irnneiiuuun mcior mo uominion nas
becomo In munition, production or the
' Ma n.J. a I a I- ! - I
a tremendous factor tho Dominion has
magnitude of the tank before It
FARMERS CONTROL
N. D. LEGISLATURE!;
Grangers League iu Position to
Dictate Laws of the
State.
' pietldent of tlio company, called at Po
lice lleudiiuarters In Manhattan and
. . ... I asked that hit. niesUlent be arrested.
imi f ,h vnnh n.inin itn.iu. nr iiin.
rcsentatlves, with the strong posslblllty
it will control the Benate too, has been
obtained by the Farmers Non-Part!in
The Non-Partlsun League Is an or-
sanitation Including In Its memlKTshlp
some forty thousand farmers. In ad-
dltlon to control of the lglslatuie. It
wnn nt ,h. ,-..! -i.i in,, all the Kinio
'offices but one. and claims to have
...... . .... ....... ... .. . .
The Non-Partlsan league's legislative
IWBW Provide"; for a campaign for
H't ownership of marketing facilities.
The proara-me calls for establishment
- .. . i 1 1 1 ...
' crvinwirac ii u......
of State owned terminal elevators, pack-.
of State owned terminal elevators, pack
ing plants, flour mills and other enter
prises. T ft ciTPT TTWTWDQ AT TV A TWT slfl
IU Blli uniYWIDIUi lAUXX-u.
geaatar
Chaaahrlal
s Will Urge
a taeatlan.
. Chairman
-nlle Hearings
Wasminotok. Dec.
Chamberlain of the Senate Military
Committee announced to-day that he
would urge the appointment of a sub
committee next Friday to hold public
hearlnga on universal military training,
using as a basts for consideration his
universal training measure modelled
after the 8wlss military system, which
he Introduced at the last session of Con
gress. Senator Chamberlain conferred during
the day with Howard H. dross of Chi
cago, president of the Universal Military
Training League, an organisation of
prominent men who are urging a uni
versal training system. The period of
training to be required Is one of the
vital points to be considered. A period
of eight months was discussed to-day
as a probable maximum.
WOMAN, HURT, HALTS TRAFFIC.
Klnarr Caaajkt In Shnr Rntlun I
Wire In Middle fif Street.
All traffic on Lenox avenue for blocks
near 155th street was stalled yesterday i
when Mrs. Cella Mathleson of 163 West
130th street stopped In mldstreet lo de
tach the bottom of her skirt from a but
ton on her shoo top.
Tho reason was that Mrs. Mathleson,
having stooped, could not regain an up
right position. Her finger had become
wedged In the wiling of the button, and
there ahe stood, bent over at an acuto
angle, while truck drivers brought their
teams up on their haunches anil auto
mobile drlrors threw on the brakes to
avoid hitting her.
There waa only one thing she rould
do. That was to scream. She screamed
with pain and anger and humiliation In
her cry. Among the several hundred
who heard her was Patrolman lirown
of Traffic Squad I-. He found ho could
not remove the finger and after.mlnuti-s
of endeavor he solved the hltiiatlon und
allowed traffic to resume by cutting on
the top of Mrs. Mathleson's shoe. The
wire had entered her linger so deeply
that an operation was necessary to re
move It.
TWO HEB0IC 00IS LOSE BOOTS.
Dracareal hy Bnna ny Teasn In
Fifth Arense Till Horse Slops.
Two policemen lost their rubber boots
In atopplng a pair of runaway horses
which gave Firth avenue a scare yester
day. The horses, puuing a proauce irucu,
hoi tad from Broadway through Thirty-
second street to Fifth-avenue and then
charged up tho avenue on the wrong
aide for northbound traffic. Near the
Waldorf they gauopea over ine euro
and yanked their bouncing track along
the sidewalk.
The wninetree waa oroien ana tne
rsins were dragging. The helpless
driver, John Hyde, hung to the seat,
which till he could do. Be rut. Pat
rick Crane anal Patrolman John P.
Kennedy leaped togemer ai ine.noraea-
haada and each grabbed a bridle, The
horses, dragging me iwo policemen,
veered back Into the avenue and stopped
between Thirty-fourth and Thlrty-nfth
j, ... ....
-asin vm i .." wv wi
tkaa found tkemaelre In their stocking
Mat That lM atom boot had Ud edf
WAR EXPORTER
DIVES TO DEATH
Christopher Wagner, Accused
of $15,000 Embezzlement,
Ends Own Life.
ARRESTED IN CLUBHOUSE
Member of Montniik in Brook
lyn Previously Tried
Siileidc'by (las.
Two minutes after his arrest on
charge of embezzlement.
Christopher '
Wagner, president of the Wagner Trad
ing Company, dived from a fourth floor
balcony of tho Montauk Club In Brook
lyn to tho Klah'th h venue sidewalk late
yesterday afternoon and was Instantly
:,,.gwi.rg1u,,i.1ad, , Th:,r w", be,,evre :,U,,B
a lavatory. The detective mvw him , n cr ffn 'months, when up-Htalo farm
poised on the roping for the leap and ers, pledged lj this new move, start
raced out nflor him. but was too lste. sending milk hero for delivery hv the
Wagner was roilim in ms room in mo
club Tuesday morning unconscious from i
. . . . . .,
bus flowing from an open Jet. Coroner
Wagner suspected at the time tnat sin-
.Ide hHd been attempted, but as the club
officials held to the theory of accident .
und there was no procf to the contrary, 1
the case was so recorded. I
Wagner had lived at the MonlaiiK ,
Club, which Is at Klghth avejiuc and
Ineo n Place, opposite, the residence or
the late Ma)or Gayuor. since last June, .
when his wife mid children went to Port-
land. Die. They arc still III Portland.
I ... .. ... ,n
Mnu Kaporta Wmr nnppiira.
' The Wagner Tradlr.g Company exports
war supplies and has mi oflleo at 44
I mmenaii sireei. inuiiuij "
st ." o clock Henry A. Meycnberg. vice-
He 'aid he had Ihmmi Instructed to lake,
this action by the company s iirectora. ,
lie aciuseu wugner oi uuving appro-
'h'"' " , " , " ?.! i- nooTielr
Rr'"Li.l".h." "..n. ..'".."'n''Tl f
long
coin-
'?'J , ....L Vi.- V... u.J.Tii.
. . " r i .a iirnnbu...
wlMt with him to thoNlontauk Club to
I,1'1.., hU.?I,, ,' ,"c , Tl.cy
"'"" . ,w ."""'"" .' 'su.c,:ur'. .... ,"c
fii ii ill,. I'liiniiniiMn aiMini li riut'h.
, iney also rraoived tnat the aovernor nie lo enanie mm to oe spoKesman lor
,..,.- . . i:. ... ii." , and legislature be requested to continue the Foreign Office In the House of Lords,
suppw 'm mta the Department of Foods and Lord rtobert Cecil will continue to
Steward Julius llutah dldn t want to I ,nil Markets In the Interests of producers represent the department In the House
let them In. He explained that Wagner and consumers alike. I j of Commons. None or the Liberal mem-
was 111 as a result of the gas iioiHonlng. it has been rumored for some tlmo' hers of Mr. Asqulth's Cabinet will hold
Vaughn appealed to the house commit- that an effort probably will be made 'office under the new Prime Minister,
tee and whs admitted with Meyenherg. through proposed blllu designed to solve After tho publication of the full Cabl
The steward led them to Wagner's room, high cost of living problems Ihst are to net the next Important proceeding will
which was on the fourth lloor on the be Introduced nt the coming session of be the meeting of Parliament on Tues-
J-lncoln place aide, vt the building. They
t Wagner In his pajamas
,,nw 'lo ou feel; wfts Meyenherg s
"iinw
--
greeting.
"Oh. I'm getting along, but nor feel-
Ing as well as 1 might." Wagner replied, i
The detectUe then showed his shield j
land explained his errand. Wagner did ,
, , M.em H,lrprK(.,. neKld:
'Well. I suppose I've got to face It
sooner or later. I guess It will be all
right. Hut I'm feeling pretty sick."
Dctccllvii Vaughn offered to h.ne him
taken to a hospital under arrest, hut
Wagner said ho would he ready to dress
and go to Police Hcadiiuaiti-ra aa soon
as he returned from tho lavatory.
luddy faced, line lojklnz man. He lived
with his family at .ISO Fifth street until
his wife and four children went to
lie wits aiiout iu years old. a tall.
Portlnnil Ore where thev are living at
wTKsst ?mrty-ehhth sTree" '
lt I .d at $10.000 i "li . secritary l.t''b"'" he 'lemnnds of the dairy-
Wl lam H. Leggett and Qiarlea Bloane hlv , m"! f, ,h,m .'"'J'1, w,t? tho
I. treasurer. They, with Wagner and ' farmers a nd politicians look for stoimy
era.- tf e. .,1 a A..njna Is. --h.
Meycnberg. were the directors.
1.0C0 DEAD IN EXPLOSION.
Russian A in in null Ion Factory De- than were repreeented In the lennie In 1'urzon and Arthur Henderson, has been
,,d .. .it unrkrre Perish 1 lfI&. The league has contracted this III session all day to-day, pays the news
x" Workrr 1 ,trUn' ,.,ar for the Bale of 110.000.000 worth of paper.
Hnit.tN (by wireless), Dec. . All ex-'
plosion 111 a Itusslan ammunition plant
has caused the death of about 1.000
pei sons, nciiudliig lo the Overseas News
Agency to-du). limiting the Itusslan
newspaper net U,
The news agency statement says:
"The Itiissliin iiewapatier llreh leiiorta
that a now explosion took plucn In hii
Biiiiuuiiillon fin-lory on La, Satannaa.
The eauso Is unknown. At the moment
ot the catastrophe nlmut 1.000 ersons
were working In the. factory, all of whom
cxldrutly polished. Tho factory wus de
stroyed." TL'MN, Uec. S (ilela)cu). An explo
sion has occurred In tho Alexandria ex
plosives plant. It Is feared that more
than llfty people hnvo been killed. The
cause of the disaster has not yet been
established. '
POLICE DOCTOR'S CAR STOLEN.
Cop Sees II. CIihscs Thieves and
Iteunlns II In Four Honrs.
I)r, F It. osier, n police surgeon, of
126 West Fifty-ninth street, left h'.s
car Iu front of the Plaza while he was
In the hotel last night and found It gone
when h" i-.inie out. Four houis later
I lie car was returned to him with the
i-oniplliiieuls of Tin file Putrohmiii Will-
lain Harrison,
llarjlhoii saw- tho machine In Third
avenue, Ills command to halt only
brought a burst or speed from tlie ear.
which held, three occupants, so Harrl -
on..!'M! ." Hin!,e '" n .,lxllRb:
until the driver slowed down and he and
his two companions attempted to lice.
The policeman caught the driver.
At the Morrlsunla police station the
driver said he was Charles Hmlth, 16,
of 317 East Seventy-first street. The
police believe this name fictitious. Ills
two companions escaped.
DU PONT TO RAISE PAY 20 P. 0.
uuua Given ttrl.tMM) Permnuently
Mad Pnrt of Their Wages.
Wlt.MiNCiTON, Del., Dec. a Tho 30 per
cent, extra pay, or war bonus, granted
during the past year to payroll em
ployees In the operating department of
the Du Pont company has been made u
part of I lie totul regular wages beginning
January 1.
This action does not apply to or affect
the aalarled employees. It la estimated
that between 33,000 and 41.000 man will
be affected.
Ik A ,-4dL
itmmLmm, g. iee, ,ta4 raU An -.ua, iirahu.M(. Y. oaee. 314 rtftti Ave. ij... I age. iiev. . i
1FARM ERS PLANlLLOYD GEORGE'S!
7 CT. MILK HERE
Pledged to Deliver Pasteurized
Product to New York City
Next Summer.
DILLON EXPLAINS MOVE
Commissioner Says Dairymen
Have Contracted for
JWO.000,000 Snlcs.
"New York city Is going to have bottled
Pastourliod milk delivered at the door for
' ,nvnn ..,. , , . ... .
icnin ii-r q.mn worn nun. is plen
tiful and nine rents per quart when It Is
scarce. Make no mistake about that. I
tow the milk distributers last summer
that this would happen, but they wouldn't
K.ci1boriioo,l r,,uM -i.,i,..
IK,,uo''"oI retail storekeeper.
Tills. tirnilV I... .( ..tiAAh.,.. ,IU
promise or cneaper mug was
mano yesterday by John J. Dillon. Com-
nilselonrr of the Htato Department of
Kood. ,.,, unr.,. ,iih,(1,,,
" Mnrkele. ufter his return from
""ca. i.. wiicrr lie waa the central
figure at the annual meeting of the State
Dairymen's League.
The league decided to reoraaulz on a
trey cooperative basis and named
.Commissioner Dillon as chairman of hi
committee of seven to plan the details of
changing from a business corporation. 1
M(. non ,mV(i (he rteptol of hl((
fellow members. The new organisation
will establish cooperative pasteurlxlng
nmius in uie rouiury ana win uiviertSKe
inc worn or snipping nottied milk here'
for distribution In pursuance of tho I
Dillon plan. I
Hnckril ! I.IIOO 3111k Farmers.
Thp . Ah,n,.. ,n .
, ; " , " '
remit of It. successful effort to boost
milk prices to the dairymen by means
f .ILM IL . I . . l . ..
of a strike, that It operated in violation
might he removed from office. Indorsing
worK ",uI regiiestlng 11 local asso-
cflll0" """nd signed resolutions to the
Pernor and legislature requesting and
demanding that Ji be continued In ottW.
... . v
the legl.lat
,'VVu.Xt
other depart
the legislature to abolish Mr. Dillon's
or combine It with sonic
ment.
i raiiesmrn sei-K unions train.
it a ,),M Wcret that butter arid I
egg men und others engaged In the food-,
stuffs trade would like nothing better,
tl-an tn see the Commissioner eliminated
from public life, Many are ulready
c.impalgulug In favor of legislation that
will put him out of the tunning.
The nctlim of the farmers In demand
ing Dillon's retention In office ! ac
cepted as evidence of pnsslb'o till eat
ened leslstance on the inirt of legislators
from rural districts to anv Ulan for
remedial cost of living legislation that
1 for sidetracking of the Com-
1 mlssloner.
, Is genetal y agreed that Mr I II-
"' l"c "'" imin
"hen he would listen to nothing hut a
LJI11II1LR dUIICIIuri U. till" llltlt 11"'
times ahead.
1 The Dairymen a League has a mem-1 The Home Office Is still In doubt."
berehlp of 30,000, a gain of IS.OOO dur- The War Council, consisting of Pre
Ing the past year The members own a tnler Lloyd George, Sir Kdward Carson,
total of 370.OOO cows, or 10,000 more Andrew Bonar Law, Ixird Mllner. I.ord
n,i(,
Mnriel (imperative Project.
"It Is my business," I'oininlesloner
tun n said last nlcht, "to do those
thlnita that will encourage the ills.
Irlli'- Ion of fii'JiletiilTs st lesser prices,
It I" my duty tn help orcanlze coopem
live agencies among producers, l in
tend to do my very liesl to make the
new farmers' organization the model
cooperative farmers' association of the
world.
"Tho association will establish pas
teurizing plants. Milk will be pasteur-
ixed Iu tho country, bottled there and . self. Mr. Lloyd George suld ho had no
shipped to this city In carloud lots. The I Intention of entering on personal iiues
milk will bo run on regular routes to lions In the midst of the war. Thero
the storm of grocers, butchers and dell- was only one purpose before the nation
catesscn men. They will deliver It at , nt the present time, he said, and that
hiaises, &c for a return of 1 cent per ' was to w in the war upon which such
bottle. , fateful Ismies were dependent
Therefore consumers will lie able to A large section of the Liberal partv
get bottled milk at a rate averaging S 'oialns rtiithrul to Premier Asqulth and
ceiilH a quart. My plan has been to looks iisin Lloyd George as u party
sell nillk to distributing agencies by tho meeker and denounces the methods by
month for what It la worth. It should 1 'lo '"'hleied power, hut many of
cost less when milk Is plentiful Hun the younger progressive members of the
when It Is scarce. It ought to retail ut
" cents Iii the spring and summer and I
V cents In the fall and winter. ,
l onlrncl tn Kiplrc April I.
"We cannot handle big iiuaiitltloa now'
for the reason that existing contracts
with hlg distributers do not expire un
til April I. After that date there's no
I. lilt, rr ,.-1tilt lh. e,..Au ...... ... ..it.
1 ,,, do ' D "u'
. Commissioner Dillon made public last
,,, . ,.t,.r ho .... ,. ' . , ' V 1
president of the New York liutter and
iWg .sxenange, accepting tho tatter's of
fer ''to cooperate with you or any other 1 partisan and will meet the popular de
official Investigating body thut a better I mand for a business government. It
undeietandlng may be had,"
Mr. Dowle wrote that the exchang?
haa always encouraged and fostered none
but the strictest kind of honest and fair
methods In buslnesa und that the rules,
laws and regulations and methods of
enforcement were open for Mr. Dillon's
and the public's Inspection.
Mr. Dillon informed Ptesldent Dowle
that ho hried lo be able to uct upon lilr.
auggestlun some tlmo during the week.
Wnuts Public to Knurr Facts.
"!f the records of the exehanM n,i e
us inemuersiiiii uro m prniseworiliy aa
your letter would Indicate." he ssld. "I
hhall be very slitd to have the facts made
Continued on Plxf I'agr,
NEW YORK HWW OBI.KANI LIMITKU.
Billy 4 lit P.. M. via BOUTKHN rail;
NINE WAR PLANS
They Include Arming of Mer
chantmen and a Spring
Offensive.
CARSON FOR ADMIRALTY
Lord Northcliffc's Newspaper
Outlines the New Pre
mier's Programme.
1-onuon, Deo. 10 (Sunday). Lord
Northcliffc's organ, the Weekly Uii
patch, says that Premier Lloyd Cleorge'a
war pmgramme comprises the following:
Klrstly, the arming of merchantmen In
order to light the submarine peril.
Secondly, the preparation for the
spring offensive.
Thirdly, the mobilisation of the civil
population between the nges of 1 and 0,
Fourthly, the making effective of the
blockade.
Fifthly, the rationing of tho population
by tho Issue of food tickets.
.Sixthly, the Increasing of the home
food production.
Seventhly, the banning of work Im
material to the war.
Klghtly, enforcing of the prohibition
of luxuries.
.Ninthly, the Instituting of meatless
doys.
The Wrcktu Dlnpatch also says that
Sir Kdward Carson has waived his prej
udices agunlst taking any definite office
and has consented to become First Lord
of the Admiralty. A. J. llalfour, it
adds, has not yet gone to the Foreign
otTlce, where Viscount Orey was still In
charge yesterday.
i t t'tfp It' milfijClJ
Lords Mllaer anil rursosi Are Maid
' to lie In It.
London, Dec. 9. The expected an
London, Dec. 9. The expected
.,,... ... i n r-,v,in.
has been nostnoned until to-morrow, as
... . . , ...
V1 (IIC MUIfVlllllllCIII HO' HWi J
... .... . ... .
var council as Mr.
Ircw Bonar Iiw, Lord
and Arthur Hen-
""ru """" "'
without portfolio and Lord Curaon Lord
Privy Heal ........
A. J. Balfour will probably follow the
example of Viscount Orey In taking a
.... .... . . .
day, when It l expected Mr. Lloyd
lieorgc will make a speech outlining the
policies of his administration, and the
new Ministers will be asked many ques
tions concerning conditions In Greece and
oilier vital matters.
stronar War Caoarll,
new War Council H consldeied'
Th
an extremely strong body. Lords t'ursoii
and Mllner are considered two of the
ablest and mo.t experienced ndmlnls-,
ttnlors of the Conservative party. I
It Is understood that Kills J. Griffith, I
formerly t'nder Secretary of the Home
iieimrtment, and In 191 1-12 chairman
of the Welsh Liberal party In the House
of Commons, has declined the pot of
Home Secretary and that the premier
1 .l?klmj 1f,ora,!?,r ",'.nn ,or "l?, pl!.T
The rati Hall Oa-.rttc says Sir Kd-
n..iu i..nu un ai;i.-r,Ktru mc iui o.
First Ird of the Admiralty.
The Kventnn .X'n says
"Sir
, J "1'11."
' directo
4(11
Alfred .M. .Mond. Member of
ament for Swansea and In the
rectorate of several largo companies.
has accented the nfllre of Pnhllo Wnrku J
-fht
I The Slor says a pnssllile hitch lias
urriiircu iii me iiirmaiiitu or ine i.aninet
owing to the recnnsldeiatlnn by Arthur
J llalfour of his acvcntiince of the
I'orelni flfllce. In view ot the mixed '
I crept Inn Ills selection evoked, I
Mr. Lloyd George said to-day he was'
(ei.v innon gratlnVil with the result of i
tln Liberal meeting yesterday nt Hi.
Itefiirm Club. He felt It would
strengthen the rountry 111 the great
task It had undertaken.
Una But One Purpose,
Iteg.irdlug personal references to him-
Lllieral party suppoit him Criticism Is
I reel) iiuiile of tile old Cablneterrs that
they had become an oligarchy and were
too Important to listen to their fol
low ers.
The chief comment on tho Liberal con
ference Is that Mr, Asquilh consented to
meet Hie rank and tile and riln'uss parly
Interests only when he was leaving of.
lice. The newspapers complain ilial be
hud been deaf to former appeals, par
ticularly when ho formed the coalition
tpn eminent, to take his followers Into
his confidence and explain the situation
and his plans tn them.
Lloyd George's Cabinet will be non
will not bo a coalition Cabinet In the
sense of Asqulth's administration, be
cause Mr. Asqulth had the cooperation
of all parties, even Including practically
the Irish Nationalists. The Liberal In
quest at the Heform Club decided that
tho old Liberal leaders will constitute
un opposition party In the llousa of
Commons, although the opposition will
1-e one of helpful criticism rather than of
hostility
I'li-mler Lloyd George's procriimme Is
, for the reorganization of the country for
. 'r on n sweeping socialistic basis and
the general comment Is that only a cab
inet of supermen can accomplish ami
conduct such a revolution. In addition
to the nationalization of shipping, mines
Continued on J-'oint 'H0r,
A1KKN ANII Al'til'sTA.
"Augusta Bpeclal" dally via 80UTII1T.RN
venizelos emissaries
IN N. Y. PREDICT END OF
RULE BY CONSTANTINE
Representatives of de Facto Government Expect Allies
to Seize Greek Ruler and Declare Throne Vacant.
Hope to Win President Wilson's Sympathy.
King Constantlne's jule In Greece
soon will end and when the world war
Is over Oteece will be ripe for the In
auguration of a dovernment In which
tfio people will be In the ascendancy, ac
cording to Pano Aiavantlno and George
Cafantarl. who have arrived here from
Salonica as emissaries ot Rleutherloa
VcnlieloM's de facto Government. The)
will try lo see President Wilson and en
list the Administration's sympathy in
their cause.
"Wo In (J recce ate In exactly the same
position as were the American colonists
In 1T7,'' said M. Aravantlno last night
"Vou had lleorge III. to deal with: we
have Constantino. We are very anxious
to cultivate and conseive the best of ro
tations with the American (Ion eminent
and people. In this country we find the
Ideal which sc are striving to attain In
our own land."
It Is in this spirit that the two en
voys will go to Washington. Though
their immediate mission is to obtain tho
sympathy of Washington and to organize
a propaganda among the American pcu
plo at largo, they expect to irm.iln In
dellnltely awaiting further orders from
M. Venizelos.
One May nrraair Minister to tr. 9,
This means In tho belief of some, of
the leaders In the (I reek colony here
that Ui the event of the recognition by
the Powers of the Venizelos Govern
ment one or the other probably will bo
nameo us .Minister to this nation.
Both men are members of the Greek
Chamber of Deputies, M. Aravautixo i
from Corinth and M. Cafantaris f i i
( Ltolla. Tho former was until recently a
iiiuirn hi me university in Alliens
and he is editor of the .Vrio Ucllat iu
that city.
"I expect the nllled forces to capture
King Constantino and declare tho throne,
vacant In the very near future." said M.
Ara antlno. "Then a provisional govern
mentthat of M. Venizelos, I hope
will be recognized, to continue hi power
until after the war. When tho conflict
ends a national assembly will convene
to decide upon the future form of gov
ernment. "What that permanent goernnirnt
will be no man can tell, for the problem
of Greece Is now In process of evolution.
At the very least there will he a change
of dynasties. Personally I bctlce that
a republic will be set up. I do not hes
itate to say that I regard that as fur
the best Interests of our people.
'Tired of Kinase and Princes."
"I am tired of kings, tired of princes.
Wo have experimented with them long
enough, to our Infinite mil row. They
should have no place In the twentieth
century,
"My view Is shared, I am sure, by a
large majority of Grrrk.i, but It Is not
the view of M. Venizelos himself. Con
trary to an Impression which may pre-
BILL TO GIVE FRANCE
A WAR CABINET OF 5
MotlSUl'O I II trotlUCt'll ill ( lllllll
.
bei' of DoilUl CS W Gllltl ( tll-
cpiilratc PowtM'.
Pac.is, Dec. 9. A bill the ptupoe of
which Is to reorganize and simplify the
existing Cabinet, win Introduced Iu the
Chamber of Deputies to-day by a group
of five Deputies, among them Abbe l.e- 140 N. rat Forty-second street Dr.
mire and M. FruiiMln-Houlllon, vice- ' Urosvenor had gone to the gymu.ulum
president of tlio Foreign Affalra Com- , ,,:ay ,andb.ill, a game of whl-h he
"'The' proposed measure p.iivldc.. that!""" N'r-V fon''' ,,f"'r ''
for the duration of the wnr the Cabl- complained or feei ng faint. A Phs.
net shall be coiiiposisl of live members, i wil" summoned, but the dean died
who shall be the Ministers nf Foreign I "".l"1 arrlvid
Affalra. Flmimc. Interim. War and Giosvrn,..- leaves Ins mother. Mrs.
M el - i Maria ilinsveiior. who Is moie than I'1'
tr, ., . mi i . i i i . . vears old, and two hi.ters. the lsics
The other pr.-s.M.l M nlsurl.'.l .Icpa.l- , ,., ,ir-rwr. ,.
ments. nccordlnK to the trims ..r the ..,,, ,iat.llol,. Aiiangenicnts for the
bill, shall give way tn a new otgaulr.i. . e,,,,,,,,,, nVe not been iniiile.
lion, tlie directum or wlilcli shall bo.
ussumeu ny ine tioverumeui.
"eek I'oncrnlrntlnn of I'nner.
A statement Issued by th" sponmus ot
the bill savii that clrcilnistaiucs liave
made evident the necessity of the con
centratlon of powers, the slnipllllcatlon
of the administrative machinery and tho
suboidlnatlou of all services to the exi
gencies of national defence.
With this purpose u view- there has
lieen illsciused the formation of a klnii
nf wnr committee, comprising in ly a
few Ministers, but tlsls organlxatlon
would have the effect of constituting
two superiHwed (5overninents.
It wiilllil not pel mil the Mlnisteis who
arc ineiiiliers of this war committee to'
escape the u-siionsltillltles Unit the I'ni'i- i
stltulion imposes iqin them Jointly and
w.v.r!ille In nil things whleh erin el n the
general nolle
Veedn'l llevl.r C. Iti.tl.i...
The statement points out that In order
imeallzethlsrcforni-a redu.-llon In the
ner-ciKsi. . . 'V"" V".. '"" "
bilni: nbout a ineeting at the height of
the war of a national assembly, adding:
"The number and pierngatlves of tlie
Minister have been fixed by siioecsMvo,
laws. What has been dono by legislative
power can be done oguin or modified
by It."
The Deputies conclude by asking for
the adoption of their hill. Ahl-o lemlrc
Is nn Independent, Deputy Franklin-
Poulllon. Abel Lefevre and I
Grouct,
other signers of the bill, represent the
Radical Republicans and Radlcul Social
ists, Kduuard l-Jyinond, also a signer, Is
a Conservative Republican
Medal for VI la Mint lturi-n.
Through a confusion of names a Pails
cable despatch yesterday nimoiinced that
PiTsldent I'nlnene had awarded n gold
medal lo Mrs. Ilarr) Dui yea of this city
This distinction was Invtoued upun Miss
Nina L. Dur,va, her slf ter-tn-hiw-, who
haa been active In relief work In France
MKAIIOABII M.A. MMITI-in, AIM I'. M.
Com. Jan. J ar. Palm Until (160 A, M,
Mnvml :0 A. M., :d liwrn. 3 lire, quick
st to ntllealr and HI, I'etnrsliurg. Inq,
aaeooara Air ua. ny.t iia uruaai
vail In some quarters In this country,
Venlzelos's present campaign Is not
against the King, as such. His activity
has been exerted In driving the Bulga
rians from our land. In none of his
speeches or Ills state papera haa Ven
izelos appeared as an antl-royallat. But
he insists and will continue to Insist
that the constitutional rights of the peo
ple shall be respected.
"Constantlne will resist, of course. But
Greece Is against him all of Ureece
save the 20,000 soldiers under hie com
mand and no power on earth can pre
dict how many of them will remain
loyal to their master when the supreme
test comes.
Holer Broke solemn Pledges.
'Con&tantlne himself precipitated the
present crisis. He owes his throne to the
Kntente Allies, but he haa declared him
self their enemy. It wae he who opened
fire on their soldiers and insulted the
majesty of their Governments. Ho has
broken our solemn pledge with our
three protecting Powers Great Itrltoln,
France and Husela and now he Is mak
ing a desperate effort to reduce Greece
to a vassal etoto of Germany, the em
pire of his brother-in-law,
"Hear In mind that ostensibly Greece
has n constitutional form of government.
This was laranteed to us when King
George ascended the throne In Athens, j
Hut Constantlne assumed auiocrauc
power and Inaugurated a policy of oppo- .,..,.. .
sltlon to the people and everything aug- 'OJ5BO.N. Iter, in Hundaj) King
gestlve of democracy. He does not un- j Constantlne has Informed one of the le
derstaml the spirit of Greece. Hy In- aatloas m tth.. ik.i L. . ... , ,
stlnct. by training and In sympathy he "" A,hf" """ " ""'' J"
Is ut odds with all Grecian traditions tiermaay If the Kntente Allies
and ambitions, with Grecian phlloaophy break off dlplumutlr retail. m with Mm.
""'King constant.ne-but why do I give I """ " '" ;"-.
him that title: be Is not a King but .1 U "", " SJ rH I'land, 1 rlila) In
cilnilnal has .Inaugurated a veritable
reign of terror. The people here can
hao no appreciation of existing condi
tions. Trees Lrlmlnala I'rosi Prison.
"He has freed criminals from the pri
ons airJ commissioned them as members
of tils KnHl Guard. I have In mind
particularly the case of Plculakla, a no
torious murderer, an". Strefls, a noted
thief. Both were nerving lor; sentences, i commander of tho Kiiti-nte allied H.m
Constantlne gave them their liberty that I . j.,
they mteht fight for his waning power. nav Pl"d an effect that N per
Free speech Is denied us. Hvery fiapor ' haps best t-.pi cssed In tho Vimi s to
whlch supported Venlxeloa haa been sup- ejiy. which says'
pressed, tflnce I left home I hav ... '
learned that the office of my own paper. , inero is on.y one policy for the
the .Vrtc Ilcllat, was wrecked because It Allies and it must lie enforced rapid!)
dared to tell the truth. j They must resolve on tho determlna-
"The King's Government Is making Its tlon that there Is no time to Ion.-,
last despairing soso now. o Royalist Tllcre ,nust b ,
party rema ns in Greece. The people are irtn , ,"WJ,U
united against autocratic rule and K. "f n C"i' " m"" "'""'f1'""'
treachery In high place arid even the P 'nB for time He must ,lut .
King's former frlcirJs. astute politicians lVrn ' l'-'ve tnlteied v,,t
that they are. are deserting a cauj "tn "d his backers far too Ioiik
which they see la hoie!oss!y lost. But
meanwhile, while the Venizelos army
the national army k lighting the llul-
gais the King's soldiers are- harassing
and maltreating the families of that i efforts to rouct-nlrati' a stioug ui -army,
Constantlne Is dying hard.'" j hi the Larlswi region tor the puip-i
- I of attacking the Kntiiile All.cs In t
DEAN GROSVENOR
DIES IN GYMNASIUM
(Jot's ti lid Street to Play
HiiihIIuiII nnil Sueciimlis
llefore Doctor Arrives..
The Veiy Rev. William M. Grosvenor.
dean of the Cathedral of 81. John the
Divine, died suddenly about 4 o'clock
j vesterday afternoon in a gymnasium at
m-nn Grosvenor w as Isirn in New Lon
' don, Conn., June 2:', tsua lie was grail
j lialed fiom Williams College In 1 S 8f and
from llerkclev Dlvinltv School three
I yeiiH later. He became a dencon In the
I Protestant llplseonal Church In 1IS8 and
was oi dallied u priest the next year. He,safet) of our tioopn forbids iii lo panil
served as assistant rector of Grace, uliy lon-J.-r to a po'.itiial nl-Je live wh
Church. Ill ooklyii. front INSR to 1SV0, has no basis In sound urate,;. "
was rector of Trinity Church, Lenox,, An F.xihange Telegraph iVmpai v d
Muss., from lt?'l to 9J, and nf the fistch from Alliens to-day mih it seen"
Church of the Incarnation In this city that the diplotnatb ! sus In (it.c- e w '
from the latter e,ir until ll'll, when he'
' beinnii dian of the falhedial of St.
I John the Divine, He has been chairman 1
of thu cathedral building committee since
the death of the Itev. William It Hunt-
luuton.
Dean Orosvenor was ,-i trustee not only
nf t; o entheilial, but of Wlllliims Col-
' lege. Halliard Colli ge. tho General Thi-o-
tottlenl Semlu.irv and llerkclev Illvinliv
i Schcpl. He was a deputv to the ijenernl
'Convention of the Priitestiint llplsoopal
i:huivh, lie was a me.ul.er of the Chi
1 l'l friilemll) and of the Fnlverslty
Club
I " Z7ZZ
I tAliflnftur. IUIV U1V1L UATilVisS'
British mid Genitalia Over 4.'. Years
... . .
u.u i.i rret-u,
l.oNirfiN, Dee. D. After protracted
negotiations through the medium of the
United States arrangements have been
made for the oxcluinge nf Geiman and
Hrltlsh civilian prisoners over 15 years
iv'il, About 4,(10(1 Hermans are Interned
i in the I'nltrd Kingdom and 700 Hrltlsh
civilians are Interned In Germany,
Whether the prisoners will reach their Pltieus. Tho Greek inrpector of public
respective homes depends on Hie sue-1 order has ordered ai: persons in imp
ress nf the Admiralty Iu finding n neu-1 session of unns belonging lo tin. Gov-
vim ricnumnp on wiucn m ma go Hie ex-
.-limn.-.
I'l-i'imratlous are being made to break
in, ll.n I'llinn. for llnrtntms mi Ih.i I.I. . .
I Man and those j'stubllshed for Hrltlsh
civilian prisoners In Germany. Only
i S,30(i of tlie GermaiiH interned In the
rnltcd Klngilnni expressed a desire to
leturn tn Germany If the opportunity
offAied ninny would prefer to go to
America,
qi'ICKKK TIMK TO ASIIKVII.I.K, N. O.
Via HOUTIIBIIN ItAILWAV. Lv. New Yerk
naiiy i.vi r,N, at, asiivviiib .allowing mera-
r ii orcioce u n, i, unice, ss r
ENTENTE FEARS
ATTACK IN REAR
BY GREEK ARMY
Campaign in Balkans Put
in Peril by Reported Ac
tion of Royalists.
CONSTANTINFS THREAT
TO JOIN THE TEUTONS
London Press Alarmed nt
Prospect and Urge No
More Palliation.
ATTACK IN ATHENS IS
LAID ITOX THE KING
Alleged Proof of Plot Seen
in Violation of Pledge
Given to Admiral.
,' Lloyd's Weekly ews.".
Londo.v, Dec. !. The typuita fioiu
English correspondent,, n Athens and
PIricus that tho recent attack uu the
Kntente Allies in Athena w.ih the re
sult of a dclllicrutcly prcpatcd plot by
the King and his Government, who
broke Ills word to Admiral du l-'ournet
Ilanarr of lrur Attack,
There Is much anxiety felt over I ie
reports that the lioyallsts in o maku
I rear. In conjunction with the German
. Uulgar attack from lliu mirth It 1,
J felt that this and the oilier Gieek .
tivltles may dulcimer tin siii-irss u
the entile ICnti-mo npi-iat.ons tn th.
llalkans
IVspati-hes ! . e Ci kMi )poi ,
I from .S)ia l laml d.diil Fildii) saa thai
repot ts rioni Atim n . . ii.. i i.i i t-iiojin hi,
iUrlllllg tlhle '-iIiiiiiiu.-! .Hid II, i
.'o.iuhi haw Kuthued in and arou i
the capital.
The allied milliners, it Is added, assei'
fur sn eilai,atii'ii of till' i oncenti alluu
and Premier l.amhios leplled ilmt Itwj,
for tlio piesersatluii older. Tile
erninent piees in Athens, the tuiuit
continue admit that l.KOu tollnuci'-i i
former Premier Vinlzelos lme lieen
seized. It l nddml that the .Ma-in .
Athens, who i- 7. .icars old, iiIoiik n
1S8 others, has heen committed In pi
on charges nf Inch tiv.isnu ami .nt
to commit miiidi i
Tlie 7inirs in illu. r cot respond-i
ni)h that In view .if !-. p'. Ittons i-i.
Iiied by the (''Itlii l'..r.- in , f
joliiea fmnt ali-l tli p'-'lilc i,
linn that tin- ilr-iU. p., iv nttan, t
Ihitenle A Un . (lorn tin- i.-.n Hie !. ,-
lllllst fn-e the .--Hit llll'.ei.. V of ,i , .
tlie nltml. up n lien .Saltan's, nrniv
u llliln tlie ii. Nt few unlv.-.
t rges Aualnst Deln.,
"Tie p.ittl- ul.ir i-iiiii.-e li ic
mends Itself lo us m Ii.m: i.i
sl.im.i-s" Lie oi i .-piiiidi nt add
written vci pl.ilnl) nn the mi
the only thliu that will never lu-
given Is In.l. . Isli.n in h sltiialion vv'i
- nceiln lu-onip' sod tlnn lii.ndline i'l
lo solved "In a cois-lllalon- manner c.n
diluted to satisfy the teimlicniei o
the I'nnrir. nii-l the rtunit. of Giver
The UhIIiiii Minister Is busily encaned m
the matter.
.4 TURKS TKIUiOUIZKl).
I-Jeltnrs llocrlli.-s S--iirs
lllaonler In the I nplinl,
'.,..,.,,.-, ,. ... , w.
!""c"'1 Ub" "t'"1'r'' '" ""' !,l! " '
j T . ,
Ln r .oj s-. D.-,' .-1 he 7 ,,e pr.i.ts u-
' ce!ve(Vf,reisi .por wh
sa)s It has escaped the rigoious .-ensoi
i ship of King Constantlne's Government
' "Since Sunday night, when the 111 eek
Government decided to stop indlserlml-
, ,. ,.,. -i i , a.i.....
,, ....., ..i .mil" ' ...llviir,,
scenes of disorder have reased,
"Pursuit of the Venlzellsts and tho
searching of their houses rontlnues, ar
rests resulting. There is no Information
I regarding tho arrested Venlzellsls. The
I Kntente Powers have been unable lo
do anything to piolect them, though
i some have escaped tn the ships at the
i ernmctit to leturn lliein lo the ilcpni
Free of I ensorslllp,
"111 view or the ract Hint sm ,- the
I eeinbarliatlon of the allied tmoiis
aiiuiiunci'ineut lias be. n mad i icg.inl
to further measU'cs. the i iovernnit nt
piess asserts that miilters ne beit.g sa'
Isfactoilly urrangisl or ilia' the post
tlon of tlio Allies on the S.th.iu-a fiuni
is so precarious t it the) are unable
to oppose the Gieek arniy Wholceonm
feara of the consequences Bru beginning
to prevail, however."
In a despatch from Cyra, one of the
W'Wft'J'WWWrfiA '. .. - ' ' .' Pit m . . ' ' '6 "
Q SSa Leniii Mh MJ,faw . . ,)l,..-,.i.wy,ri-a
