Asl^ the T~D for It
lis Information Bureau Is at
Your Disposal
Richmond
Society Doings
Sec Miss Will's Newsy and Ac
curate Reports in The T.-D.
.3
G6th YEAR
voi.i ? mk on
M >iui.it :tir>
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1916. ?FIFTY-SIX PAGES.
r?M!;V" ?CLEAR
PRICE. FIVE CENTS
PUBLIC OPINION
TO DECIDE COURSE
Diplomacy Exhausted in Ef
forts to Halt Deporta
tions by Germany.
THIS GOVERNMENT WANTS
TO KNOW VIEWS OF PEOPLE
State Department Exceeds Con
ventional Bounds in Eagerness
to Emphasize Position.
itKi?i,v soon is thd
Personal Virus ??f I * i? I ?? ?i t Ik It'*
1.11 id I inform <??M,iiian Olli
ciuls li\ (ieniid.
I?\ Af !?t'??! !
W A SI! INC TON. Dfccirilif-r V. -Amer
i.-a ti public < > t ? i 11 i < >11 will decide ivhat
steps. If any. the government shall take
to follow up lis protest to Germany
against the deportations of I'.eluluhs.
1M111 ic'Ilor von llethmann-Hollweg s
i niversation with '"barge Grew, of T li ?*?
\ n i e i' n a ii embassy in Merlin, lias con
vinced State I ?epai t ment ??l!l< ial? that
1 I^riiMii'' formal reply to the Amer
ican protect will hold the deportations
Justified on 11,o ground of social ne
cessity.
I! wan admitted utll eservei!ly lo-driv
tiiat the action of the State Depart
ment In pub I :sh i ii v ih'" ?? vi of t ii?*
prol'-'t was for Mic purpose of sound
11>u publl opinion '>n the subject. now
t h.i ? the oidmary resources of iliplo
iiuii % have he en exhausted
Whether German vs reply w II) be
made public ot answered with a fur
ther note will not be decided until the
attitude nf the American publii has
heen sounded out. and the actual text
of the tie riiiuti ahswer has been
examined
The Stat*. Depart tne.'.* is ? oiu ions
that It already has . -n? ?-???!???! the con
ventionnl hounds of diplomat \ in mak
ing ye vera 1 informal as well as formal
representations in the case, hut it is
i'HKi'1' to emphasize its position in every
reasonable way. The persona! views
of President Wilson are yet to lie laid
before Gorman otllcials l>y A:nbansador
Gerard, now on his way back to Iterlin.
OIINOMOIS I'll l\<"l IM.K
V litTt A I.I. ^ I N AL I'i:iti:i>
? Mluia' in foi ma I ion shows that the
deportations are tonllnuing, and It is
the opinion here that whatever modi
fications the Germans may put into
practice, the obnoxious principle of de.
portation remains virtually unaltered.
Some of the statements reported to
l>e contained in the German reply differ
w .dely, from the otlicial information
le.'.ibinK the depattment. i specially as
to the seventy with which the deporta
tions are being carried out. The de
tuiellt has been convinced that the
ployed anil those of Indcpt-ndeiit
fa its liaVc been taken indiscrimi
i.ately Willi the unemployed and the
dependent.
<>(l!clals <lo not de>ire to entei into
a long argument with Germany as to
details, ami are satlslied with the ac
curacy of their in formation to date.
The general failure "f the t eprr.-enta ?
t ions of the L'nited States, Holland,
Spain and the Vatican is causing in
creasing eoncern here for the contin
uance of relief work in P.elgiurn. ope
ci.illv in view of official statements
from Kngland tli.it Germany's action
was threatening the whole foundation
of Iiclgian relief.
ltelgian Minister ll.ivenlth called at
tiio State Department to-day to ex
press his gratitude for the American
protest and to inquire if tlieie had
heen any developments. lie believes
Germany cannot fall to heed a pro
test of American public opinion
kxamixicd vr.m Mini \s
?mot <;n tio:\ w i:it>: < \tti.i-:
I lly Associated Pres? 1
HAVRE. December !?.-?The llelcian
government, through its organized sys
tem of obtaining information of what
Is taking place in Helgium, has re
ceived lists of persons deported from
various localities. Their occupations
and information as to whether they
were working at the time of the depor
tation. and whether they were of in
dependent means or not, is contained
in the lists.
Some of these lists from Xlvelles,
south of Brussels, show that among
the deported were forty-two persons
of position, and who owned property
and who were neither idle nor Indigent,
such as farmers, small shopkeepers,
the hotel proprietor, the .station master
and his principal assistant, students
and artists. Another list names thirty
nine persons who were employed and
were making a sufllcienl livelihood,
but who were carried off to labor in
(Sermany.
"The townspeople al .lemappes," says
?mi eyewitness account received here,
"were assembled and examined as to
their strength, age and general appear
ance. very much as though llie.v were
cat lie. Five hundred were picked for
transportation. Kadi was asked lo
? in! a paper saying that he engaged
voluntarily for work in Germany. The
men were told that "if you sign, it
wi.'f bf< easier lo place you In tlermany.
If yoty refuse, you will probably be
sent Ho the front lo work in the
trendies." Kew persons signed the
paper.) One man of forty-two v.lioi
signed1, was overcome by remorse two!
days later and hanged himself.
Numerous narratives received by!
Gils "underground railway" describe j
trains parsing through towns packed!
with mem who were being deported, j
Sometimes, il is said, they were sing- ]
lug the "Ttrabanconne," the Itclgian tin- !
Ilonal hymn, or the "Marsrillai.se." {
And soiinetlincs they were cursing Ger- i
(Continued on Fifteenth l'ngc.)
XMAH AT 'mtOWNNVI U.K. TKXAH
. $73.-10 round-trip, vln HOUTIU5HN ICAII.
aW'AY. Splendid uorvlco.? Adv.
England to Discontinue
Buying Shells in U. S.
TORONTO. Itrvrmbrr II.? Wltliln
kI\ mini Mix from ntMT. lit llif Intent,
I) i Hi I n nil kIII mil order iiimtln-r tin.
Ishf il slifll In tin- t nitfd StlitfM. Ily
tli til Hints llrltl-.li shell i'iiii t rni't h
with \ nifrlfiiil niiiiiiifnrt urcrN will
IlllVf expired. No renewal ttlll lie
inn tie.
\ iiHtmtif c nirnt to tliln flTt* c| wn*
?initio t o-iln y by .1. \V. Fin Vfllf.
fliiilriiiiin of llif linpfrlnl M mil t Inn*
IImiril for I'nnutlii, upon hln rftiirii
'nun KiikIiiiiiI, uliiTr lit* 1VIIX for
nliif nrrltN, cnnff rrlng with the
Hrilluli .M u ill t Inn n Mlnlntry.
Thf dl?f iiiilliiiuiiif f of n In* 11 ,-oii
triiclH In the I riltfil Sliitcn MiKnlllrn
n nhlftlnic tif t lit* in it I ii t si m li of ?u|)_
|il) Inn iiiunltioim for l.'rftit Itritiiln
tt? Ciinnilii. Mr. Klnvflli* ?nlil ||a?t
t :i 11 ml I ii ii flint r lift? iiri* fiprftrd tn
lit- rtiIIIIIt-il i! 11 rlnIX tlir i-onilng yfnr.
I'nw iiuitf rlnln. Niifh ii m i-opiirr,
hriiM* mill ttlff I, tvlll flint In in* to hi*
lioimiit in tho i nltfii stntfM.
ZONE SYSTEM OF RATES
IN POST-OFFICE MEASURE
Likely io (?rcntly lncrpasc E'liarges
fur Periodicals (laving Nation
wide < iivulatioii.
1$ I I. I, C,l ft It I KS 8327,000,000
One-Cent I'ostauc for Loral I-irst
< Ihss Mail Deliveries Provided.
Limitations on Promotions of
f'lorks and farriers liaised.
I Hv A* soctai^d ]
^ ASHINrsTON. Dtocmbiir 0.?On**
rent postage for local first-class mail
delivi-ries, ami a 7.one system of rates
for second-class matter, which is ex
t- ti*il i*? greatly increase the charges
for ma gazines ami other periodicals
havlnir a nation-wide circulation, are
provided fur in tho annual post-oflice
appropriation hill. a? virtually com
pleted to-ilaj in committee. The meas
ure, carrying' appropriations totaling
about inio 1.no, probably will lie re
ported to the House next week.
I nder the 1-cent postage provision
the rati* on letters and otiimail mat
ter i f the Ii! st class, when deposited
in ?tt;y post -ofllce or branch post
oflice or letter liox or post-ottice ill the
delivery district, for delivery within
the limits of the post-office, city or
rural district, would lie cut in half.
The zone proposal for handling news
papers and magazines, which now 1
' f'lt a pound, is re
u'a riled as one of the most radical
changes In postage rates in years. I
divides tin- country into eight zone
witu rates , hargeable ranging from 1
? ???ni for ::0ii tniies to r, cents for 1.S00
miles or more. The bulk of daily
iifMspnpeis. the committee believes.
'?*'.11 not be affected, because they do
.not circulate beyond a 3)0-tnile radius
Thi* provision follows
I hat all newspapers, magazines and
other publications regularly admitted
i" the mails as matter of tiie second
.-lass, when mailed by the publisher
shall hereafter be subject to the fol
lowing rates of postage, the -zone .sys
tem now applying to parcel post matter
a?la pted also to second-das^
mat t e.-.
?'I HI-1*>IIl-!lts Ml s'l" SKl'AHATK
rill'.llt MAIL l.\ TO ZONKS
i.ocal. first, second and third zones
(under :!"<? miles); I cent pc-r pound.
"Fourth zone (8O0 to UOi.i miles). J
cents pt?r pound.
I'ifth z**111* (t'.Oo to l.tino mites)
! t'' - per pound.
Sixth zone 11,000 to i, 100 miles), 4
cents per iioiind.
'Seventh zone il.too to 1,^00 inilea),
? > cents per pound.
"Kiglith zone tovei l.Soo miles), ?;
I cents pei pound.
j I 111\ ideii. that free-in-count v cir
I c 11 la 11 on provided Wy law shall con
tinue as at present.
"The Postmaster-General shall have
authority to require publishers to sep
arate their mail into zones when of
fered for mailing."
Among other provisions the hill in
creases rates for mail-order catalogues
from 2 to s cents a pound, making
I them third-class matter, instead of
parcel post: raises the limitations 011
promotions ,.f clerks and carriers In
i'.rst and second-class post-ofllces:
broadens the Postmaster-General s au
thority to ileal ?with lotteries, drugs
and poisons, and increases the rural
mail delivery appropriation by $1,000.- J
000.
Chairman Moon, of the Post-Office
Commit tee. said to-night that the hill
still was subject to change before
being reported, and that the question
of hearings on the proposed pneumatic
tube-servicc^appropriation was in abey
ance.
BANKERS TO MEET IN CHICAGO
Will Study V il t Imii Ii 1111 y of \ iiteiidnif 111 ,
to < liccli-t'nllcctloii Srcllon* of
Fcilernl Itfserve Act.
I Hv Associated Press. |
N*K\V YORK. December 0.?The com
niillee of twenty-five, appointed by the
American Hankers' Association at its 1
Kansas City convention in September '
to study the advisability of an amend
ment to the check-collection sections
of the Federal reserve ad, will meet
in Chicago on Monday to discuss the
question, it was 'announced here to-day.
Fifteen members of the committee
arc country bankers and ten represent
city Institutions. Under the clearing
and check-collection system now ope
rated by the Federal reserve banks the
charge for collection is held by many
bankers to be inequitable, in th^t it
is declared to lie excessive to both the
banks and the public.
Six thousand replies received by the
association to a referendum submitted
to the bunks of the country indicated
nn overwhelming opposition to tho Fed
eral Reserve Board's present chock
clearing plan, it was said to-day.
i FUNSTON ANSWERS
BAPTIST CRITICS
^
I Explains Reasons for Not Per
mitting Revivals ifi Military
Camps on Border.
| GRAVE INJUSTICE DONE HIM
Resents Implication That Be
cause Man Puts On Country's
Uniform He Is "Lost."
! B\ Assft' lat^*! 1
SAN ANTONIO, TKX.. Ivromli^r ?
' Major-< lenera I Funston. commanding
the I lepnitment t}io South, to-night
replied to Itev J I!. flambrell. sec
retary of the executive board of the
I'.aptist General Convention. explaining
the general's reason for not permitting
' revivals in tlx- military camps here
and alone the border. Numerous Bap
tist conventions have adopted resolu
tions condemning what they under
stood to have been the general's action,
and suggestions were made that Presi
dent Wilson, as commander-in-chief of
; the army, be asked to take ofltclal cog
nizance of the matter. A resolution
asking for information on the contro
vrsy also has been introduced in Con
I cress.
General Funston gave out copies of
the lettej- to the press, in which he
says, in part:
, "From time to time I have been re
ceiving copies of resolutions passed by
various T.aptist bodies conflemning my
supposed stand relative to holding re
I l'.giou? services among the troops on
the border, and also have received a
number of very unjust, and in some
cases abusive, letters from clergymen
of the same denomination. Incidental
ly. I might say that I have had more
letters approving my stand than I have
I critlctr.ing It.
I mi iurrr.nr.M K nr.cA rsi:
or Ills IJl-I.NOM I NATION
' "This whole disagreeable incident,
with all of its annoyance to me, of
course, arises from the statement made
by you after your visit to the head
quarters a couple of months ago, In
which you sought to obtain permis
sion to conduct a series of revivals in
the border camps. You stated your
' business to Colonel Harnum, chief of
staff. If Colonel Barnum stated at that
j time what denomination you belonged
to. it made no Impression on my mind,
and if It had. it would have made no |
difference whatever. ;
"1 told that ofllcer to explain to you
fully that, while religious services
along the usual line.-? were conducted
in the camps by chaplains and other
dergj men. and were welcome, 1 could
not give my consent lo the holding of
a revival, therein giving the word, as
T was justified hi doing, its usually
accepted meaning 1 told Colonel
Harnum to explain to you why revival
services would be out of place in a
mlli'arv camo, citing the disgraceful
performance in San Antonio last win
ter as an example of what revivals are
apt to develop Into, and drawing to a
certain extent on a general knowledge
as to how revivals or 'protracted meet
ings.' as they are sometimes called,
are usually conducted.
"I further instructed Colonel Harnum
t.i say to you that I did not accept, in
fact, resented, the implication that be
cause a man had put on bis country's
uniform, he was necessarily lost. 01
worse than other men; that I thought
there were people who had stayed at
home who needed revivals worse than
the soldiers did. .
IlKPK \TKI> ST Vri'.MKNTS
AHSOM TKI.V I.XKXt l SAIII.I*.
"L'tider the circumstances, you can
imagine my astonishment when 1 read
your statements to the effect that I bad
said that 1 would not allow the soldiers
lo be told that they were Most." You
must know as well as 1 do that the
doctrine that should be preached to
the men was never once considered
or mentioned, and, with all due cour
tesy, 1 feel compelled to say that your
making repeatedly the statements you
! are quoted as making was absolutely,
inexcusable, and did nie a grave In- i
justice.
"The only time the word 'lost' was
used by me was when ! said that 1
did not accept the view that because
a man put on his country's uniform
he was necessarily lost. .
"I say frankly that I would not want
' to take chances on allowing a series
of revivals or protracted meetings in
| these great camps. I am .instilled in
?giving the word revival its usually* ac
I cepted meaning?a series of meetings
! continuing day and night for an in
! definite period with loud exhortation
and singing and much emotion
alism.
"How about the rights of the men
who do not want to attend revival"
land who do not wish to be disturbed
' by them? Are they to tie compelled
to leave the camp, which is their home,
land wander about downtown or
through fields to get away from them?
There are many religious people who
disapprove strongly of revivals, with
their attendant emot ionalism. And.
anyhow, be a man religious or irre
ligious, be he Christian. Hebrew <>?
Mohammedan, no other person has a
right to rub his belief or his worship
into his face, that is. to bring it into!
the place where he has a right to he,!
and where he cannot escape from It
without abandoning that place. . . . I
Ml ST PltOTKCT SOMIIKKS
KUOM IMPOSITION
"Soldiers must be protected from im
position by their superior ofllccrs, and
if these ofUcers, from weakness or
other reason, fail in their duty, their
only recourse Is submission or riot;
and it is a safe guess that the latter |
is what you would have got with aj
typical old-fashioned revival in any j
one of the camps. ...
"Kvery regiment lias Its chaplain,
(Continued on Second Page.)
XMAK AT nROWNSVIM.K. TEXAS.
17.1 <0 Round-Trip vIh SOUTHRHN RAIL*
WAV. SplcndW Horvlcc.?Adv.
He's Catching It From All Sides
wtmm
fell
L^AquE
CHARGES WAR DEPARTMENT
WITH DISCRIMINATION
Telegram Signed "Company l<, First
Virginia Infantry," Coiues
to Governor Stuart.
HK \VIl,Ii TAKK NO ACTION
If Authentic, May He Hegarded by
Fe<lcral Authorities as Serious
Breach of Military Discipline.
Lynchburg Hoys Yearn for Home.
State military otlicials will give no
consideration to a telegram received
yesterday l?y (iovnnor llenry Carter
Stuart, purporting to express the sen
timent <>f Company 1/. First Virginia In
fantry that Virginia * regiments have
been discriminated against by the War
Department when other tmops were or
dered home from border duty. The
anonymous message was sent from
l!rownsville, and. if authentic, might
tie considered to constitute a serious
breach of military disciplin.e
? iovernor Stuart, who arrived home
last night, carefully read the tele
gram and then stated that he would
take no action, in view of the fact
that it bore the name of no individual.
Adjutant-General \V. W. Sale earlier
in the day stated that it was his opin
ion that the message was either the
work of an irresponsible person or
some disgruntled soldier, and that as
far as he was eoncerned no attention
would be paid to it. The organization
whoso name was signed to the tele
gram. he explained, is in the Federal
service, and the State military au
thorities L'onse<|uently have no juris
diction. even if it is authentic. The
matter is entirelj in the hands of the
Federal authorities.
CO.MI'A.M \\A> FOIt >1 Kl> in
Mil Nti >11:\ OK I.VM IIIU III,'
Company I., coiiiinanded by Captain
tJeorge M. Alexander, is train i.yucli
btirg, and is com posed of members of
the best families in Ihe Ilill I'ilv. Tt
is one of the most ellicient infantry
<onipanies in the State, although prob
ably the youngest, being slightly more
than a year old. It was organ i/.ed
with lieutenant -Colonel Robert 13.
Craighill as its first commander. The
company was mustered into tho Stnte
service under the name of the Lynch
burg Murketters, and many of its mem
bers are graduates of the Virginia .Mil
itary Institute. farter til ass. ?lr.. son
of Congressman Carter Class, is en
rolled as a member of the company.
That this company, which has gained
Continued on Second I'age.i
What Would Y ou Do
if Jim wanted to get n farm or Htnp
your nIiocm from n?iuenklug, or hulld
n clilcken-4'oop, or found n hoNpllul,
or preserve pernimnioiiN. or lieeome
n diplomnt?mid you didn't knnn
liow f
st itdsk \ <?i \\ \ vn;n 'ni know
Ihe tiirlfl" on potntoen, or Ilie liIk?
esl lirlilur in America, or wlto wiin
the grandmother of tlie lOmperor
of <;erninn>, or why tlie^ niiii look*
lnrue ut fmniet. or the enst of living
In South America, or the total ex
port* of the t'ntted Stiite* in tl)l.*i,
or the Income of the Itoekefrller
Foundation, or who wrote "Silver
Thread* Anions the linldf"
TIIK.TIMKS-IHSPATCII INFORMA
TION liriiKAl
linn nnwwered every one of tliene
<liic*tloun, and mini) other nnd more
difficult one*. It In the service Hint
will tell you ,
"WIIATKVKIt YOU WANT Ttl
KNOW."
Write your name nnd addre**
plainly. Inclosing n It-cent Mtiitnp
for return poNtnge, nnd mldrfM
the Itlehniond Tlnies-Dlspnteh In
formation Ilurenu, Metropolitan
ltank llulldlnA, Washington, 1). V.
Federal Grand Jury Investigations
Ordered in New York :ind
in Detroit.
OTHERS BK1NG CONSIDERED
Indira lions Are That Several Hun
dred Witnesses; Including Dealers
in Coal, Foodstuffs, as Well as Rail
road Employees, Will lit' Examined.
WASHINGTON", Dccemtior 0.?De
partment of Justice officials announced
to-day that Federal grand Juries at
New York ami Detroit, probably at
i'lcveland, and possibly at Kansas
t'iiv, Minneapolis and St. Louis, would
eonduct sweep! UK inquiries into the
high cost of living. Indications are
that several hundred witnesses, includ
ing dealers in coal, railroad employees!
ami dealers in and producers of food- j
stuffs, will be examined.
Frank M, Swacker, .spei'i:ii assistant j
to tin; Attorney-General in the Ruvern- |
meat's prosecution of the New Haven
case, will assume eltargo of the in
vestigation at New York, and probaldv
will start the inquiry early next week.
The inquiry at Detroit probably will
begin next Wednesday or Thursday.
Information relating to the activities
of dealers, producers and other factors
believed to h!?ve contributed to the
upward trend is pouring into the de
partment in great volume. The Agri
cu It lira! department to-night made
public figures it lias supplied to the
investigators relating to the amount
of certain meat foodstuffs held hi re
frigerating' plants. These figures, while
ti/>t complete, indicate that the plants
are carrying far more foodstuffs at
present than they had in their rooms
a year ago. The indicated increase this i
year over !.i>t, by percentages, follows:
Frozen beef, 12 peY cent: cured beef,
?!s per cent: frozen pork, :si per cent:
dry sait pork, -I r, per cent: sweet
pickled pork. .1:: per cent; lard, -IT per
cent, frozen lamb and mutton, 21 per
cent, and unclassified products, 34 per
cent.
i?itr.sim-:\T lions not m:i:
<.uoiu;i: w. \\DKitsoN
President Wilson did not see George
\V. Anderson, of Boston, t!ie l.'nited
States attorney in charge of the in
vcstigution, as it wjis thought he1
would, to-day. Ml. Anderson pro ha !>ly
will call at the While House before
departure on Monday for Chicago.
Mr. Anderson to-night requested co
operation of housekeepers in his work
to the extent that they refrain from
purchasing, so far as possible, articles
of food (hat have reached the highest
peaks in the new high level of prices,
and substitute cheaper commodities
In addition, it was pointed out that
what the district attorney termed the
great American hahit of wastefulness.
if intelligent Iv checked, would result
in reduction of the demand and a
lower level of prices.
"The American people," Mr Ander
son said, "need an eleventh command
ment: 'Thou slialt not waste God's
substance.' "
I MIK'ATM \VII)l'',SI'ltK \ I)
i:.\istii.xk ok <ohiii nation
Ueports to the lb .>?. troent of Jus
tice from its investigators Indicate,
officials said, the widespread existence
of combinations of brokers and dealers
in foodstuffs and coal to force prices
upward. All data concerning them
piobahly will be submitted to grand
juries.
Activities of alleged food and coal
speculators are said to have extended
":on( ted on Tenth i'age.j
XMA. HOLIDAY KAKKM
Via SOUTH HUN RAM.WAY to nil point*
South, December iO to tnclusivo. Ftnul
limit January 10, 1917.?Adv.
(CooyrlKht. 19t(S. International News Sorvlca.)
RETKIL EGG PRICES SHOW
EFFECT OF BOYCOTT
Stores Reduce Quotations 2 Cents
Per Dozen on Cold-Stor
age Variety.
DEALERS PREDICT SHORTAGE
Hoycott Has Had Effect of Driving
Goods to Other Markets, Say Cary
Street Commission Merchants.
Housewives See Victory.
With slight traces of demoralization
in the inurket still existing, there
: were indications yesterday afternoon of
iU further break In the prices of eggs
j in this city, when several retail stores
' reduced their prices - cents per dozen
for the cold-storage commodity, al
i though fresh country eggs in the main
, held ii|? strong at the prevailing prices.
In the wholesale district there was
heavy taking of stock by the retail
dealers, and several commission-houses
j had difficulty in supplying' the demand.
Despite the increased demand, which
I was also evident in the retail trade
for over-Sunday requirements, prices
remained practically stationary. In
fact, some stores were found jester
day that were asking 40 cents for
cold storage eggs, while others had
reduced their price to 35 cents per
dozen. The increased demand had been
expected, hut in Cary SI reel sveral mer
chants could have disposed of a greater
stock than they had on hand.
Market conditions were reported yes
terday for The Times-Dispatch as fol
lows:
"Poultry?Small and thin stock in
good demand; large, dull and hard to
move. Mens, receipts heavy; demand
light; dill! market.
"Kggs?Market in good shape, and a
more active tone prevailing. Market
cleaned up. IJeceipts not equal to de
ina nil.
"Market in general, especially evigs.
in gootl, active condition."
(oi.ii stoic\?;r. i:t;t;s
it v\<;i; i-'ito.M :tr? to in ck\ts
Cold storage eggs in the retail mar
ket ranged from ;>r? to 4<) cents, with
the former price in most general use,
and the country commodity at from
i.r> to Is cents. There was no change
i:i the butter situation, which is also
being watched closely by I lie House
wives' l.eague. Another bulletin on
market conditions, issued yesterday in
Cary Street, was as follows:
"I 'nfavorahie weather conditions
caused an unusually dull market in
t'ary Street to-day. lJereipts were
light, particularly in eggs and turkeys.
According to ? ommission merchants
here, turkeys and eggs probably will
lie scarce Christmas. Farmers are not
shipping these commodities to Rich
mond during the present boycott, and
arc holding gootl (inutilities of produce,
it is said. With the lifting of the boy
cott immediately before Christmas, the
demand for eggs and turkeys will be
heavy, and with no supply to meet this
demand, prices will automatically rise
higher than the prevailing 'quotations,
and possible considerably above the
quotations in effect when the boycott
was declared."
Wide publicity oil the part of the
newspapers of the country and the boy- j
cotts declared by the numerous house- j
wives' leagues has resulted in a general
break in the Chicago produce market,
where during the past ten days aggs
had dropped 11 to 11 cents. Commis
sion men in that city admit the strength
of the boycotts, ami many of the
speculators are said to have turned
loose considerable quantities of eggs,'
which are being shipped to other cities 1
of the country. The Chicago market is j
said to be a strong controlling factor!
(Continued on Fifteenth I'uge.)
II AI.TI.WOHK ItV BOAT
At nil wensonii the niOMt delightful water I
(rip In Ainerlcu i'.'.-'iO one way: It.iO round
YOHK HI VIS It LINE,?Adv. '
?; ?
ULTIMATE FATE !
OF ROUMANIANS ?
STILL IN DOUBT
Teutonic Pursuit Reported
"Progressing as Had
Been Planned."
INVADERS TAKE BOOTY
THAT IS INCALCULABLE
Since December 1 Capture 70,000
Prisoners, 184 Cannon and
120 Machine Guns.
RUSSIANS LAUNCH ATTACKS
Majority of Them Said to Hare
Failed, With Heavy
Losses.
Constantine Threatens
to Join Germany
I.OXDOX, Decfmbfr 10, 4tlO A. K.
?Kins Conntantlne has Informed
one of thf legation* at Athena that
he would Join Trlth (Jermany If the
entente allien break off diplomat!*!
relation* with him, according to a
dlnpatch from Plraena, by way of
Syra Inland, on Friday to
Weekly X?m,
f By Associated Press. 1
The Importance of the succeaaea of
the Teutonic armies on the battle flelda
In the vicinity of Bukhareat is em
phanlzed by the announcement that
since December 1 the Roumanians have
lost In prisoners more than 70,000 men,
184 cannon and 120 machine suns, and
i the losses in dead and wounded are
' declared to be in proportion to the
number of prisoners. The booty taken
j by the Teutonic armies Is reported as
"incalculable."
The ultimate fate of the Roumanian
armies still Is in doubt, but they con
tinue to retreat before the Teutonic
allies, whose pursuit, it Is announced,
"Is progressing as planned."
i The Russians have again launched
strong: attacks on the upper Moldavian
and Transylvanlan frontier, but the
! majority of them are reported to have
I failed with heavy' losses. Some ground,
I however, was gnlned north of Dorna
1 Watra, and Russian troops dislodged
hostile forces from two heights in the
; Putna Valley region, taking some pris
1 oners and machine guns.
The battle south of Javornitza, in
' (he wooded Carpathians, has ceased,
and the Russians have retired to their
| intrenchments. In consequence of the
retreat eastward of the Roumanian
I troops, Russian troops on their left
| Hank also have been compelled to
I retreat.
ENTENTE DKMVKHS ATTACKS
IV Hi: XI) OF CERXA III VEU
The entente forces again have de
liver- <1 attacks In the bend of the
Germ. River, on the Macedonian front.
Tlirre has been violent artillery fight
ing on the Homme front, and in th%
vicinity of hill 304. at Verdun.
One thousand persons are reported
to have been killed by an explosion
in a Russian ammunition factory.
The Germany military authorities
have evolved what is declared to be
an improvement upon the British
"tanks" used on the Somme front, and
have given them a test in the Rou
manian campaign with marked suc
cess. In contrast with the slow pace
of the cars used by the British, the
German "tanks" run at a speed of
twenty-five miles an hour.
A new British war council, of which
the Premier, David I-loyd George, la
a member. Is declared by the London
livening News to have been In session
all day Saturday.
Arrangements have been made for
tiie exchange of German and British
civilian prisoners more than forty-five
years old.
HI SSI IVS ?A1N (.ROUND AT
COST OF HEAVY I.OS9ES
i!l'!l'.I.I.V, December 3 (via Sayvllle).
?Strong attacks were made yeaterday
by the Russians in the Carpathian
forests, the War Office announces.
North of Dorna Watra and south of the
Trot us VRlley the Russians gained
ground at the cost of heavy losses. In
Western Routnania several thousand
more prisoners have been taken, as
well as many cannon. The Rou
manians are retreating rapidly. Since
IV-cember 1 the Roumanians have lost
more titan 70.000 men and 1S4 cannon.
The statement reads:
"Kront of Archduke Joseph: Between
t he Kirlihaba and Bistritza Valleys
the Russians yesterday launched strong
attacks. The majority of them failed,
with heavy losses, under our lire.
North of Dorna Watra ground that was
lost was dearly paid for by the ag
gressor. Likewise In attacks south of
the Trotus Valley, which virtually
failed, the Russians obtained only a
minor local success, while wasting con
siderable forces.
"Army group of Kit-id Marshal vor?
Mackcnscn: The left wing of the Ninth
Army routed Roumanian divisions
which tried to make their way towards
the southeast from the passes north
east of Siuaia. Several thousand men
were made prisoner and many cannon
captured. The enemy is in retreat all'
along the line before the right wing rvf
this army and before the rapidly ad
vancing Danube army.
"Since December 1. as far aa appears
sit present from a superficial clearing
ur of the battle fields around Bukha
rest. the Roumanluns have lost to theso
two armies more than 70.000 men, IH
canivm and r.'O machine guns. The
size of tluse figures permits of a plain" ?
conclusion being drawn as to the im
portance of the success obtained by
the allied (Teutonic) troops, and show*..--'
to what a degree the Roumanian ?rmy^ '
l.s demoralised. The lort.ies In dead m* A
wounded are in proporlioo to the n*
., . 1 ' 3a1
