THE ARIZONA REFUBL
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
IGAW
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
24 PAGES
PHOENIX. ARTZONA. SUNDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 10, 191G
xuvaan axvxs
24 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 205
Teuton Successes Continue.
Rumanians Lose Thousands
Funston Makes Warm Reply
VOTES WILL
To Disappointed Evangelist
T
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The importance of th successes of
thp Teutonic armies near Hui'harest is
emphasized by the announcement thai
nince Decemtier 1. the Rumanians have
lost in prisoners more than T0.UU0 men,
1.M cannon and 1-0 machine kuiis, and
the losses in dead and wounded are de
i la red to lie in proportion to the num
ber of prisoners. The booty taken hy
the Teutons is reported as "incal
culable." The fate of the Rumanian armies is
in doubt, but they continue to retreat
liefor the Teutonic allies. The Rus
sians again have launched strong at
tacks on the upper Moldavian and
Transylvanian frontiers: but the ma
jority of them are reported to have
tailed with heavv losses. Some ground
was gained however, north of Dorna
Watra. the Russian troops dislodging
hostile forces also from two heights in
the Putna valley and taking prisoners
and machine guns. Th battle south of
Juvornitza in the wooded Carpathians
lias ceased and the Russians have re
tired to their entrenchments. In conse
quence of the retreat eastward of the
Rumanian troops, Russian troops on
their left flank also have teen com
pelled to retire.
The entente forces again have de
livered attacks in the Lend of the Cer
na river, on the Macedonian front.
There has been violent artillery fight
ing on the Somme front and in the vi
cinity of Hill 304 at Verdun.
Correspondents in Greece report a
persistently hostile attitude by King
Constantine and the Greek royalists to
wards the entente and declare efforts
are being made to gather a strong ar
my in the Larissa region for an attack
upon the entente forces from the rear
simultaneously with attacks by the
Teutonic allies from the north.
Kriti.ih military writers call attention
to these contingencies and decisive ac
tion with regard to Greece Is urged in
the interest of sound strategy and the
safety of the entente forces in Mac
edonia. The reply of the German chancellor
to the latest representations of the
T'nited States government regarding
the Kelgian labor deportatious is ex
pected to be delivered today or tomor
row and It is stated that it will be
couched "in the friendliest terms" and
go as far as possible toward meeting
the American wishes. Certain conces
sions, it. is understood, may be made
because of the promise to the Dutch
consul at Antwerp after the surrender
f that city that L'elgmns would not
be deported.
A German warship, described as a
light cruiser. Is operating in the At
lantc. accordng to the statement c,f a
Itritish sa captain who declares his
vessel was held VP by the flf'man and
examined. Agitation in I.or.don ship
ping circles for the convoying ,f mer
chantmen has resulted.
One thousand persons i re reported
to have been killed by an explosion In
a Russian ammunition factory.
The German " military authorities
have evolved what is said to be an Im
provement upon the r.ltish "tanks"
used on the Somme front and h.ive
given them a test in the Rumanian
campaign with marked success. In
contrast with the slow pare of the cars
used by the Hrltish the German "tanl's"
run at lb miles an hour.
LADIES' DAY H COURT
fRepuHican A. P. Leased Wire
COI.L'MhiUS, Oil io. Dec. . iiegin-r-.inir
Monday, Judge Osl.orrt of lh
municipal court will hold a sea ion
for "ladies only'' every afternoon to
accomodate women vlo'ators of the
new traffic codo of Columbus. Wo
men proteMed against Icing arraigned
at the regular morning session bf"'o
lice court.
ARMOR PLANT 6ITE
NOT SELECTED YET
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
Xt'lV YORK, Dec. . Selection of a
site to be recommended to Secretary of
the Navy Daniels for the erection of
J1,')).0"0 naval consulting board re
search lalioratory, wax made here today
after several hours discussion of the
board. It was announced that trie place
chosen would not be made public ..but
that it would be referred to Secretary
Daniels for announcement by him upon
h'a approval.
NO LIQUOR AOS
Republican a. p. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. 9. Exclusion
of liquor advertisements from the mail"
was advocated today by the Board if
temperance, prohibition and. public
morals of the Methodist Kpiscopal
church, in a resolution declaring the
liquor mall order business in prohibi
tion states U ranirily increasing be
cause of the growng use of the mails
to distribute advertising literature.
"Behind this request." says the res
olution," Is intense feeling on the part
of our entire membership."
ele-ublicsn A. P. Leased Wife
At Cenerul von Falkenhuvn'a ted
lii.uters In Rumania (Vi:i lindon)
I .'fie, a. One of the most Interest. in;;
fe-jtures of the, Rumanian camoa.gn
from a Oernian Mandpolnt has been
tne n ectnc jlar work of the new ar
mored automobile.-) evolved soon alt r
the advert of the British "tunW un
the Homme front tut which the de
velopments in Rumania, have chow n
to be a vest improvement In ffi-i-iency
over n dltbih nimhlne.
Kven In tbo brief tent it has had
since the Oerman cn4Kej the mo'in
'.alns into the listunn jiiuina, th:
new t'ermnn aimorrt tar has shown
itself an f'lcient ."nixiiatry to the cav
alry in patrol wor't u it freooe.ill-.-c-.n
inflict infinitely more dimi'g
Hint a v. hob- souadion and is f ir
more itlfflrult to deiarov Mi. 11 the
Kiiflfh ln"t'.n. ( 4 a.-l ievemen.,
o far ln-li.de an ailack on Rnmu--ian
Infan'.rv in wUbli r.'iy m-n v.e n
1 il!cd
The c-r -,.f in inai,
wheels a foot wide and encased in
solid rubber. Titey curry it crew of
10 men IrclMfPn niachlne gnu.
ooetalor iiibslitute and one officer.
The iiiai-l, ine guns can be oper.itid in
a!inos( nn, diieclion tbroush narrow
CERHANS BUILD TANKS SUPERIOR
TDTHDSEUSEO
U I I I Y AID BELGIANS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. 9. American
public opinion will decide what steps
if any the government shall take to
follow up its protest to Germany
against the deportations of Belgians.
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg's
conversation with Charge Grew of the
American embassy in Berlin has con
vinced state department officials that
Germany's formal reply to the Amer
ican orotest will hold the deportations
justified on the ground of social ne
cessity. ,
It was admitted that the action of
the state department in publishing the
text of the protest was for the purpose
of sounding public opinion on the
subject.
Officials were not greatly encour
aged by today's press dispatch outlin
ing the forthcoming German reply. So
far at can be determined from this
summary the reply contains little,
officials believe, that had not been
said to Charge Grew before the formal
American protest was sent.
HAT GRID
Reoublicjn A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Ic Travesties
on the recent national election and
puhlic issues enlivened the annual
dinner of the Gridiron club tunigh'
l'resident Wilson, mcmoers of the
cabinet, diplomats, political leaders,
memt ers and members-elect of con
gress, publishers and proniiccat in
dustrial and financial figures of lie
country were guests.
Musical and vaudeville skits satiris
ing public men and events with mem
bers of the Washington newspaper
corre ipondents corps In operatic and
thespian roles kept the gi.ests In
merry humor. The -climax of the en
trrtamment was presented in 'The'
Gridiron Follies of 1!1S.-" a musical
review- revealing facts, fuioles and
fancies of the hour. The scene for
the follies was laid in ltfayette park
opposite the White House and icvcal
ed as principal characters Vane
Motortruck, clisirmun of the dnio
cratlc national commit, and William
R. Willcox, chairman of the rep.ibllcsr.
notional committee.
At the cvlose of an opelng chorus
sung by a "Oalaxv of States, with
the theme.-"Com, let us have a Jolly
t'lr. no mntt-r who's elected." Me
t'ormli k and VYiUrox. wt re disclosed
and engaged in good-natuied dialogue'
Mct'ormkk 'beer up, Mr. Willcox,
the battle is over. Somebody t.l to
lo..
Willcox Somebody d'd.
Mccormick Ri member, voi've m'l- h
to h thankful for.
Willcox Yt.1. wa. lost ,1'tah. but we
ss ed Vermont.
Mi Cor.Tii k Never mind that. Here
In the preience of this galaxy of
state we can talk things over dis
psssionaicls .
Willcox Say, I thought ymi said the
battle was over.
Meioimlck; So It Is. Tonight we
ar" just Indulging in a little caustic
comment on current events.
V, illtox Well, if vou'ro holding a
post-mortem, what was the matter
with New York?
MoCormick Murphy, curse him.
Wilcox What will become of the
Tamniv Tiger'.' ,
, McCormick It will If an open sea
son 0,1 tigers fjr the next four years
Here comis the wandering minstrel
now.
At this point the Tammany leader
entered to strain" of the "Rogue's
March'" and t felicitations from Will
cox who pair' be (Miirphvi was In
'djtch." l Murphy replied that he
"t'xk n gambler's chance and "lost,"
ard then s ing : '
Forsaken, forsaken.
Forsaken am I;
The Tin-mini' Tiger
Is turned out to die;
I go to the White Hoi;e
And find lb door barred
For Wilson still lives there
And hW heart Is r hard.
Wi'h exit if Murphy the d
iloguc
ivr )
BYTHEBRITISH
silts. At one end under (be customary
' ool i.i a f.undnd hone power niotoe
unci at the tthtr end under a a'ml'ar
hood is the s-im.Uh" tank. Kuch man
in Ihe crfw in ur, etirt 11 nitci.aniciu'.i
and cl.aufffnr.
Tit autcmol ile ,.ni(ine Is both .-ill'
and water (oo!e,. Tie ur shell is
imiiervio'is to machine gun and li b;
lire. When no opponent is ia sight
tl'f top of the turret can be opera d si
that a man can get his shoulders out
snd m.ii.n- observations. When the
tui ret is dosed, perls -oi4 a: e pla-e l
in posliion which permit a view of
the surioi.ndintr lands ape from' nil
tirg'i-H.
I Nore of ;lie 0rmau aulomoblb of
jlhis type -,.d In Riimnr.U have :n
I yet 1,-en dlsnblid or itestroved I v op
Itonents. Thf biillKs thus fr .
"innte:cd hn'e hardly dtited tie
I I bells- of the ni-t' iiin.
I Th" chief f'dvnntag,. of t'-o n-v,"
j ritiomobll In contiust ' wit ; Cie
British marl, ice Is that it can nn a'
an average -peed of tle. , r hour
.in cot traslcd with t! e nnll-!il;o p,ee
or the entente cer. Its K,oed fre
quently enables. It to scout even 0he.1l
of the 1,-iv-ilry 11 ml -it, can make' 't(
way over any road or even a fie'd,
'1
IRON MEETING
(ContlniKil or Ptge I-"
Whether Germany's reply will be
made public or answered with a fur
ther note by thisijovernment will not
be decided until the attitude of the
American public has been learned and
the actual text of the German answer
has been examined.
The tUte department is conscious
that it already has exceeded the con
ventional bounds of diplomacy in mak
ing several informal as well as formal
representations in the case, but it is
eager to emphasize its position in every
reasonable way. The personal views
of President Wilson are yet to be laid
before German officials by Ambassa
dor Gerard, now on his way back to
Berlin.
The general failure of the represen
tations of the United States, Holland,
Spain and the Vatican is causing in
creasing concern here for the continu
ance of relief work in Belgium espec
ially in view of a second official state
ment from England published today
that Germany's action was threaten
ing the whole foundation of Belgium
relief. .
Naming of New
Cabinet Put Off '
For Short Time
TRepubllcar. A. P. Leaica Wire
I.ONDiN, D-c. S Tne expected an
nouncement of pteniitr l.lovd George's
ca'un-'t Inn been imsl'smcd until to
morrow as -om of the apiaiintmiits
have no', beon arranged. Latest re
ports give the constitution of the war
council .is .Mr. IJuvd George, Andrew
ISonar 1 aw. l-ord I'uram. Lord Milner
ami Arthur Henderson. I.ord Milnei
will be mimst"r without portfolio and
Lord Coron Lord Privy seal.
V J. Balfour ,.robably will follow
the example of Vii.co-.nit Grey In tak
ing a till" to enabia him to Oe spoks
rren for the foreitn office in the
house ' of lords w hile l,ord Koiiert
Cecil will continue to represent the
department In the house, of commons.
None of the liberal members of Mr
Asipiiihs cabinet will hold office
under the new prime minister.
After the publication of the cabinet,
the next official action will be the
meeting of 111 iamct on Tuesday
when it is expected "bat Mr. Lloyd
C'-orgc will mat: a speech outlining
the policl-. of hi administration and
new minisfrs wiil c iiuestlor.eil con
ccniin.t conditions ill Greece ai.il other
v!v "matters.
The new council Is ,risidercd an
extremely strong body. !rd Clinton
and illlner are tonsidered two of the
ablest and m-iHt experienced io!mir
Ktrtitc;rs of the conser .itivc party.
15 PEOPLE 10
Per)ub'u.an A. P. I eaed Wire
EL J'ASO. Tex.. Ikt. ? Heleitm's
heroi,- example In maintaining an un
equal struggle In lebnlf ot v. hat It
believes its rights. Is 1'iancisco Villas
liisplri.tion in his own tstrugg.e. ac
cording to copb-s ot bis recent pro-la -matlon
brought to the boru'-r by r.
ugces. This manilesto which was
irtntfd nt San Andreas. Chihuahua,
ends with the slogan ".Mexico for th
Mexlians," In heavy type ard benrs
the name of' Villa as "C.eneial in
chief."
"Ail the reopb's jif the earth." the
document begins, "are capable in ie
.ermiiied m-inients r,f the grei'-st
sacrifices when they see their na
tional integrity menaced and wh-n
their rights as fre men have ly-' n
jeopardized, of this w have a beau--tlftil
example (Hello KJemplo) In the
tilt-.nlc conflagration of Kurop": but
particularly in the heroic Belgium
v-blch, bclcnglng one of the mos:
eulluied peoples of the Klobe. went
into a dtvastiiting war without th
moet remote how V r victory, bu;
ioiihcIous of duty done, sni which
suiiumbed onlv when tht re.iter part
of its worn disap'Kvrcd lictv.een th"
walls of Namur and IJej-, burning
th"ir lu-'t finridge to prevent their
helmed country from falling with n
piinllv befa-e ihe lnvalr.
"our Kuthi-rland also has arrived
at th solemn moment whn we must
oppose the un.iustifi"d iiivas'on of our
eternal enemies, th" Latbat kins of the
north."
VUI 1 then calls on the Mexicans to
imitat" those people wi-o "sere.ie and
rriilit -r offer their lives." In , their
'oun'ry's (lefnp." He tegrets that
M-xico cennof be unified ha:se of
Ihe C,rran7n partisans, whom hr:
ca'ls "renegade patriots."
The re son why h could rot re
main Ina.llvc." Villi Ka'd. was be
eaiis, the onstltution.'ilists, lnste-ul o"
repelling invasion. " -xploited b i.-i-
tlonal sltnnti'm with ri fined v lckd
ns for, their priiat" benefit." He
declared his onlv object m:i to "over-'
throw treachery" and p'ace in th
preldrncv inv B"a' I". patriot.
Villa ile'laratbm of f rln.lplcx iiw
cli'd th fi'i!ioM.lng:
J-YeV. hffra -?!-, which th mlllia-v
vote will be ili'd'd. hot punishing
'villi d--aUi "a1! tho' n' I eliuvln.tr
themselves in th el-Hon."
Th making of military chiefs ln
"liglble to the fii-esblemy or to either
ho"S" of ,'ii:rps '
r:iif,,n ement ntv of a v.1 and
lh" a in'ilhnent of Mi ol.i. ,
Anniil'meni of nil furrnnza c mces-
sb'TlM.
Ri-liudlitl-'ti t all fi.tewn cli'.ln'.n fo-dnmH-.--es
Onh- those fore'gnerw o rot'ino,is
rrsib f-f - fi- ennntrv for .", yenrs
nd thro'itho-'t the i"'dn'ion w-'ie
have her rttn"illz-d rltl7e f,,r tip
sum peril d w ill I " i llov oil to a -quite
property In Mexico. To m ei
. (.Continued, on Voge Two)
M 1
BELCiS
The inspection of all the ballots in
the state in the contest Instituted by
liorernor Hunt against Thomas K.
Campbell, will probably be couinict'.ced
tomorrow. Yesterday afternoon alter
an all day session, judge Stanford ot
the superior court dismitsel the mo
tion of the conte.stee to strike, over
ruled bis demurrer and uismig,.-u a
motion to make the complaint ot tiic
contestant more definite and certain.
In support of the motions and tut
demurrer Judie Sloan, deorim I'urdy
Billiard and John L, (Jiit-t appeared.
The governor was represented by
hugene S. Ives. It was the theory
of the attorneys for the contesteeS
that no Inspection of the bailois could
be ordered at this tiniei inasmuch as
the contest had not yt been surted;
that tlie document filed In behalf of
th governor, whatever It ml-lit be. a
petition, complaint or other form of
bill was not in conformity io the stat
ute; that an inspect'on was asked for
not to prove allegations of the com
plaint but to find out wli'-ther the
governor had a case at all.
Judge Sloan said it was inconceiv
able that as the governor had alleged,
votes that had been cast for him and
had been counted for Mr. Ct.mple'1
in "each and every pie'iln't in each
and every county ia the state." Here
was evidence that the governor did
not know whether he had a ground
fo a contest byt was asking for per
mission to rboot into the brnvh.
At the mortiim.- hearing Jcdse Stan
ford IadirateJ lhat he would nvUe
the ordfr for the appointment f in
spectors nt once. In the- afternoon
session Judge Sloan p-escntcd sever il
opinions in which It bad been held
that complaints rmich- more specific
'ban that filed by the sovernor had
he-n rejected because if their inscf.
fi' lency whli !i b 't th coutest"es
open to surprise. Among this opin
ions was one from the supreme court
of Oregon :-nd nnoiner from Missouri.
At the conclusion of Jud.te Sloan's
re murks. Mr. 1'illard called th,'' at
tention of th court to th order of
tie cunt In the mutest instituted y
Davidson in tehnlr of Mr. tijtidy. fol
lowing the lat demociali-' primaries
In that ens. Judge (Stanford had hcid
trie complaint to be defective- and
otcleic-d it to he made more spec.fic
though It l ad designated 'he pr-clnots
In which a rco iiit whs desired. Mr.
I'cliatd. v ho was of counsel for th
contestant bad ncceded to the vie- of
th court yiid had amended the com
plaint In compllan e with the otb r
which he dieted to be right. Mr.
Ives fol!nvvd with an asseition that
th complaint could tied he na,re p
cific than it had been made by the
allegations of the governor as to
each, and eterv tire, inc-t." He ar
gued" ftntt-ci". that noody wotib! be
hurt hy t'l inspection.
At one time In th fours of bis
remarks. Judge Slnun nskeo l.im if
ins refcren'e to votes that, had been
art for the' governor and counted
for Mr. Camidieil Included ft.'.s bal
lots which: had ben marke- with a
'icns over the democratic ticket ami
cross i posjte the name of Mr.
'nmphell. Mr. Ives replied thai he
wa rot referring to them aii-1 sa'd.
"hit as a matter of law. they should
b c tinted for neither the contestan.
nor the i r ntcstee.
A suspicious ircm' tancc . said Mr.
Iv.-o v as that so mnnv mor- voti"--
had en cast for gove rnor than f,-r
iridentlal electQis. Why that was
suspicion. Mr. Ives did no' cxplsin
nor did It occur to him that the t itai
vote in every j-reflnct mnt be shown
on the tally sheet of that precinct.
Mr. Ives h ntcd at 1h P'iri)-ts of
th attorneys of Mr. Campbell to rteNy
the cor.te-t as long n?i possible In the
expectation that If it were rot ended
hi- January 1, Mr. Campb-ll would
fake his t. The spr-nker was In-i-lineil
to t.ellVve that that would not
he . fin eventuality. Mr Ivf !mad
Some ref-ince to Mr Bollard's tmrt
In th O-irdy-L-'nr-y conte'-t and s-bl
that he was nctjrur Ibcn r,,r a demo.
erat. To vvl.l-h Mr. liu'lard -repliecl
fContlnuefl on Page Twoi
FCR THE FIRST TIME
DOUGL'AS. Arijona. Dec. 9
Governor Ceorqe W. P. Hunt told
! John F. Rots county attorney of
i Chochiae county, that he had
I signed the proclamation doinq
I away with the death penalty in
i this, state at five o'clock Friday
I afternoon, at the tame time he
1 signed the prohibition proelama
I tion, the county attorney said to
! night.
The attorney telephoned the
! governor because the proclamation
' was germaine to instructions to
' be given a trial jury in the case
I of Mike Connors, charged with
! murder of Younq Davis, a Douglas
' cattleman. Upon receiving this in
I formation, Mr. Ross transmitted
it to Superior JvHqe A. C. Lock
! wood who omitted mention of the
i death penalty for first degree
I murder in his instructions to the
' the jury, for the fott time in the
! history of the state.
I
-n
CERTIFICATE NO. 1
GOES TO CAMPBELL
Asked as to how he was "standing
the strr.ln" of the contest over tho
vfovernor.-hlp, Tom Campbell, lepuldi
inn winfter hy IPi cote In the i; 'cent
election, said yesterday that bis tier v.
was ster-clc. ;
"I was assured hy Secretary of
State Osborn that on his return lion
tin v- from a little irijt to the Wcinleii
mining dlsiritt, be would issue the
"orUtieates of clc.'-tion, and be wes
kind enough to sav to me thai In
honor of my iMisition ;,i th- brad of
th" ticket, he would he pleased to
make mv certificate number on-. !
am not Idling the contest worry 111"
I am tooiuisy."
On Monday, it is learned, the r.al
contest will becln. tlioo-ih In law.
,'ierhaps, what will take place Monday,
will bo tevn riled onlv un a :-i ell'iimar
to the legal content, jvlitcn can come
after Ihe conlestant lias worked n;: a
case. If case there be anions- the thou
sands of ballots' that will be 1,1
s ected,
15 IT TREACHERY?
rPeouhllran A P. Leated Wirel
WASHINGTON, Dee. 9. A state.-
ment regarding the clash at Athena
was presented to the ttate department
by the Greek legation today. The
statement handed to the department'
for its information was a copy of a
cablegram from Athens instructing the tachments which in several columns eral's. actions, and suggestions wi re
Greek minister af London to call to the proceeded from Piraeus to the capital,) made that Iresident Wilson, as com
attention of the British foreign office which was under military control. The mander in chief of the army, be asked
the facts. It is signed by Foreign Min- detachments occupied some of the out- t0 take official cognizance of the mat
ister Zalocostas.' Its text follows: skirts and repulsed the royal army, tr. A resolution asking for informa-
"Reuter's Acencv has brought the which onlv at that momint diifl in tion on the controversy also bus been
news that Lord Cecil, answering in trie defend themselves without any orders,
house of cortmens Mr. Dalzieli's quos- I "After the morning skirmishes be
tion, said that, in spite of the reiter- I tween the allied detachments and our
ated. express assurance given by the troops, a truce was decided upon, at
kingvand his government that no trou- the request of the admiral. Despite the
ble would occur, one of the most armistice, though, and after firing had
treacherous attacks was brought ceased, th. allied ships bombarded sev-
against the detachments cf allied con-
tingents which were landed on Admiral
du Fournet's order last Friday.
"Please bring to the knowledge of the ' "There can under such conditions be
secretary of state or foreign affairs no question of treachery or of a non
that the royal government, with two provoked attack."
Guards' Health
Is Better Than
The Reglilars'
j
( Peputl'csr A. P. Leased Viel I
WASHINGTON. He;-. 9. Mobllii-.a-
tion of the national iniard for binder
service was accomplished with the '
minimum of disease or discomfort, ac- I
cordtiiK to the annual report of the!
medical department of the army,
signed by Colonel KirmitiKbam. acting j
surgeon general, and made, public to-1
day.
The weekly non-effective rate for
the guard was 1H.3 men per l.liirO. Col-
...... i i .. ..... . ...cai.. o,i.'
.k,,,,. ei..rlv i,Ji,-Lt tZ .rtv.,1'!'1''"1"1"1 possibl at-Kansas City
made when compared to the much
higher futures in the Spanish war mo
bilixaiion. The rate for the entire regular army
during 1 4 1.1 was "5.22 per 1.000 men.
a slight increase over 1K14, but well
below th average for the preceding
decud. There were but eight cases of
typhoid fever during the year and no
deaths.
EXECUTION DELAYED
IRerublican A. P. Leased Wire
MF.X1CU CITY. Dec. S. The execu
tion of Harold Kltoli bus uirafn been
PostiMined bv the Mexican L-overnmeiit.
Ceneral Obregon, the minister of war.
tiluy telegraphed to Oaxctca ordering
the suspension of the sentence for 24
hours lecaus of representations made
bv Itritish Consul Ceneral Thurston.
I-U-r Ceneral Ohregon granted an in
definite susiK-nsion of the sentence
against Klton, which was to have been
carried out today. The suspension Is
to enable the American state depart
ment to contuiue its Investigation of
the case.
Klton wan convicted by a court mar
tial on a charge of aiding the rebels
against the government.
Republlcar A. P Leased Wire
WASHINCTOX. Dec. !). Recent per
7 , K ronmtinns n
KhRland. h ranee and Oermany revealed
that the mass of the people in all these
countries are anxious for peace. Miss
.Madeline lty of .New li,rk told thel
annual meeting of the omen s Peace j
I'arty tonight. The speaker said thei
lack of accurate news in one group of
belligerent countries regarding condi
tions in the other group Is mainly re
sponsible for the continuation of hos
tilities. "The people of France and Ilngland.
I have been told by responsible peo-r-le."
said th (speaker, "are heartily
sick of this war. Because Lloyd Ceorge
and other persons ha'e ' been crying
that Cermany the powerful, must be
crushed, if Knglnnd and France are to
survive, the -roople have come to be
lieve that such is the truth. As a mat
ter of fact th people of Oermany arc
weak, and they want peace.-
"To say that Ungland and France by
continuing the war will crush militar
ism in Oermany is erroneous. It Is a
fact that the longer the war continues,
the stronger the militarists of Oermany
will ltf.com. When the Itritish and
French people realize the exact condi
tion of the German people then will
peace be near."
Miss Doty tedd of attending mass
meetings In Oermany ' where peace
prospect'- r.'Pre freely discussed by
civilians and soldiers. nr investiga
tion of conditions in Kngland ami
France, she asserted, disclosed that
nubile, peace disciis."iotis wer not per
mitted.
Among resolutions adopted by the
peace party todav was one expressing
disapproval of the "evils of secret di
plomacy. '
Previously speakers had assailed the
newspaper censorshop recently estao
llshed by the Americ an navy In Santo
Domingo
other resolutions iiopteii, prov men,
that the chief efforts of the party
should be directed against any form or
universal compulsory miliary service.
condemned military training in the.
schools, iavoreu repeal 01 me oiicii
provision In the army reorganization
11 NUKES RE
MILITARY
m
in STRONGER
bill, urged the appointment or cnmmis- censes, which In many cases were sub
sions representing th t'nited States seciuently restored.
and Japan and the L'nited States audi The order for general Sundav closing
China amicably to settle dispute, and Issued more than a year ago has been
enclors" the proposed federal timer; d- the source of continuous dissension be
ment for women suffrage. tween Mayor Thujjipson, a republican.
Miss .lane Addams of Chicago, was and Maclay Hoyne, democratic state's
re-elected chairman of the unity.
A suggestion that the national head-
ipiarlers be moved from Chicago to
Washington was voted down,
GREEKS SHY 1
letters and several oral declarations.
had informed the French admiral of
the impossibility in which they were to
deliver the war material they were
summoned to give away,
"Despite these warnings, the admiral
decided to land a certain number of de-
oral shops of the town and shot not
less than 38 shells, seven of which were
! directed against the royal oalace.
I1H 0
COST INQUIRY
IRepcfclican A. P. Leated Wire
W A sn I VI1TI IV i,.... a li..,....-.
ment of lustice oific ials ' announc ed '
today that federal grand puries at
New York and Detroit, probable at
- i , i
Minneapolis ajul Si. Loyis would con
duct sweeping in'iulrries into the high
cost of living. Several hundred wit
nesses including dealers in coal, rail
road employes and dealers m the pro
ducers of foodstuffs, will be examined.
Flank M Swackcr, stecial assist
ant to the attorney general preamble
j will start i lie inquiry in New York
early next week
The inquiry at De troit probably wiil
begin next W ednesday or Thursday.
Information relative to th activities
of dealers, producers and other factors
believed to have contributed to the
upwaid trend Is pouring into the de
partment in great volume. The agri-
cultural department figures, while not
' compl-fte, indic ate that storage plants
i ar earning far more foodstuffs at
J the present than they had In their
i rooms a year ago.
The president 1
continuing his
tud- of reports of the investigation.
O.-orge W. Anderson in charge, of the
leuerai investigation tonignt requested!
co-oH3ration of housekeepers in his
work -to the extent that they refrain
from purchasing so far as possible,
urt'oles of food that have reached the
highest points of prices and substitute
cheaper commodities.
A reduction in the amount of the
I highest priced commodities bought by
Ihe nation's housewives, it was point
I ed o'jt. even if small in individual
uses would make an aggregate slump
in the demand which could nut fail to
WITNESSES IN
bring pric es tumbling in the articles j "I say frankly that I would not want
affec t"d. j to take chances on allowing a series of
In addition it .v as pointed out thai revivals or protracted meetings in these
what th- district attorney termed "thej great camps, I am justified in giving
great American habit of wastefulness." j the word revival its usually accepted
if int-Uigently checked, would result I meaning a series of meetings con
In reduction of the demand and a ! ducted day and night for an indefinite
level in prices. period with loud exhortations and sing-
The American people." Mr. Ander-. ing and much emotionalism '
son said "need an eleventh command- - How about the rights of the men
ment. Thou thalt not waale J"d s who do not want to attend revivals and
sujslance. who do n0. , . . rii , .-1..., i...
HICACO. Dec. 9 Drastic rules for
tlict
regulation of cold storage ware-
houses :.r 11L-..K c, 1.- ... f
the ores,..,! f-d.'-ri.t inv. sticnti,.,, into'
- he re.e t r se in fd,I,a" U " be0auSe he a
J, fj j annolinceT toTay bv i - There are many . rehgious
H iiliam I. 1 c onnell chairman of i I'eople who disapprove strongly of re-
I the state public utilities commission
Chief of the
reforms contemplated'
ommissimi is a time i
by tile? state
limit on all food stored.
Storage ware houses which should
be public lierefactors. have now be
come, not so much a necessity to the
public as a convenience to the specu
lators." said Mr O'connell.
THE OLD OLD STORY
TRepublican A. P. Leased WlreJ
OKLAHOMA CITY. Okla. Dec.
"John Barleycorn" was made corre
spondent In a divorce suit today hy
i llaiEcl Wucilovv. seeking a separation
from Chjitles Wudlow. "The intim.i
I lies cf the co-respondent,' with the.
j defendant were recited in the petition
which alleged that "John Iiarlev corn"
hps been a very intimate associate ot
the defendant for three years past.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIC.VCO. Dec. !. Almost simultan
eously with a new order from Chief of
Police Charles C. Healy to enforce vig-
, orously the Sunday closing law. came
the admission from .Mayor Thompson
today that the c hief of police would re -
sign. New orders instructed all police-
mrn i arrest violators yn sight and
,00k them at the police stations. Here -
tofore saloon keepers who did not obey
tne la w were arrested later on warrants
or punished by revocation of their 11
attorney.
Chief Healy's resignat ion is attrlb-
nle( indirectly to the clashes between
,the state and city forces,
111 ORDERS fill
SALOONS CLOSED; CHIEF QUITS
TRepubbcan A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Dec. 9. Ma
jor Central Frederick Funston, com
manding the department of the south,
tonight replied to the Rev. J. S. (lum
brell, secretary of, the executive board
of the Baptist Ceneral Convention, ex
plaining the general's reason for not
liermiuing revivals in the military
camps here and along the border.
Numerous Baptist conventions haxl
adopted resolutions condemning what
they understood to have been the gen-
introduced in congress
General Funston gave out copies of
the letter to the press in which he says
in part:
"From time to time I have been re
ceiving copies of resolutions passed by
various Baptist bodies condemning my
supposed stand relative to holding re-
l'Rious services among the troops on
the border, and also have received
number of very unjust and in some
cases abusive letters from cleryfiien
of the same denomination. Incidentally
I might say that I have had more let
ters approving my stand than I have
criticising it.
"This whole disagreeable incident,
with all of its annoyance to me, of
course, arises from the statement
made by you after your visit to the
headuarters. a couple of months a-o in
which you sought to obtain permission
to conduct a series of revivals in the
border camps. You stated your business:
to Col. Barnum, chief of staff. II Col.
Harnum statead at that time what
denomination you belonged to; it
made no impression on my mind and if
he had it would have made no differ
ence whatever.
"I told that officer to explain fully
to you that while religious services
along the usual lines were conducted
In the camps by chaplains and other
llnk,,m ana were welcome, I couht
"'n Blve my consent to the holdins of
revl4'ala therein, giving the word as I
w jupuiiru in uoing, us usuanv ac
cepted meaning. I told Colonel Har
npm to explain tu you why reviml
services would be out of place in a mil
itary camp, citing the disgraceful per
formance in San Antonio last winter
as an example of what revivals are apt
to develop into and drawing, to a cer
tain extent, on a general knawk-dge as
to how revivals or 'protracted' meet
ings, as they are sometimes called, are
usually conducted.
"I further instructed Colonel Har
num to say to you that I did not ac
cept, in fact Tesented. the implication
that because a man had put on his
country's uniform he was necessariiv
lost. or worse than other men: that I
thought there were people who had
stayed at home who needed revivals
worse than the soldiers did.
"I'Oder the Circumstances ou may
imagine my astonishment when I read
your statements to the effect that f
I "ad said that I would not allow the
I soldiers to be told that they were 'lost.'
musi Know as wen as I do that
the sermon that should be nreached to
the men was never once considered or
mentioned, and with all due courtesy
I feel compelled to sav that your mak
ing repeatedly the statements you urc
ciuoted as making are absolutely in
excusable and do me a great injustice.
The only time the word 'lost' was used '
by me was when I said that I did not
accept the view that because a man
iiui on nis countrv s unitorm he was
necessarily lost."
them 1
Are they to be comuelled to
"J r"' ';."""" """"
: ""V I. .IWJUl UOWn tow n IT
ihrough fields to get away from them'.'
J vivals with their attendant emotion!'!
i!,ra- And- anyhow, be a man religious
"r irreligious, be he Christian. Xlcbrew
! or Mohammedan, no other persHU has a
; r'ght to rub his belief or his worship
into his race that is, to bring it into
the place where he has a right to bl
and where he canot escape it without
abandoning that place.
"Soldiers must be iwotertcd from im
position by their superior officers, and
if these officers from weakness or other
reason fail in their duty, their only
recourse is submission or riot: and it
is a safe guess that the latter is what
you would have got with a typical old
fashioned revival in any one of ti.e
camps.'
"Kvery regiment has its chaplain unci
these practically represent every
Christian denomination many of these
(Continued on Page Two)
Saloon keepers who were arrested on
warrants after the closing order had
been issued by Mayor Thompson were
promptly freed by juries. Criticism was
made by city officials that the cases
were not orosecuied bv itsiutunt imi-
attorney with sufficient vigor and the
1 revocation power in the hands of th,
mayor was used as a weapon to enforce
the law. Hoyne adherents then l'ioi.g!u
1 the charge that the mayor was using
I this power to rew ard favorites and to
Ini ild for himself a political machine.
Hccpiitly after a sensational raid by
Hoyne on the city hall for document.-iry
ev idence Chief Healy and his seirc-tary
were indicted.
In announcing the chief's, ir.irjrncnt
resignation, Mayor Thompson declared
Healy's inability to obtain an immcd-
lulA tl.l-,1 t-Via ln,lA,,An, 1. -
jreason be would leave thp department.
I Chief Healv had not announced his res
ignation tonight but said the question
) was entirely In the hands of the ttuor.
j
