?f Allies on Somme
ill
Overseas News Agency Says Total
of More Than 1,000,000
Virtually Annihilated
Jlly Associated Press. J
RIORUX. October II (by Savvilie).
? ritish and French ?livlslon?, with :i
"tal of more titan I.OOO.ftOO men. havr
?cen virtually annihilated in the
?omme battl*. sayH th(, military criti.
>f the Overseas News Agency.
According to fiRiircM from .Swiss
ouiccs, as given hy the news aRcncv
he Russia n losses from Juno 1 ti
October 2 were about l.'ioo.oon men.
The news aponcy's inllitarv critic
vrites:
" Plie heavy sacrifices made by th<
? ritisli and French for the recapturr
>f each square yard on the Somme i^
iroved by the fact that in threo and
?ne-hair months about ninety fresli
? lvisionjr were virtually annihilated, sc
hat it was necessary to withdraw thcVi
re\< .. [Ninety divisions represents
' 'ot:'' *>r considerably more than
. >?-,?) i) men. There are about 12.?">0C
nen In a French division ami i :>
i British division.]
?These divisions disappeared com
M-tely from battle. Fifty-live divis
ions, in eonscquence of tln>ir jjreal
were able to engage in combai
?nly twlee. fifteen divisions tliref
mies. an<l only on* was able to engag,
" combat four ilmes. Four division.'
?ad suffered so severely after tbeli
econd engagement that it wns no.:^
=ary ro send them t.. MU|or sectors. ,)tl,
>n critical days the> we,., ,..rnlr
brown in." ' *
?'DRY" SPECI*AL IN SOUTH
'l,r\ rined VonititrtUiin Welcome
Wert* I'roliililt Ion
Iti 'IVnitmorr.
v \ <u \-i iat Mi I
N A. I KN'N.. October 11?.
goblins Will Kot you if you don't go
Iry. was the warning cry Ira Land
Ith sounded to Southern Pemocracv
o-day when lie came back home to
irge suppott of this Prohibition na
ional ticket on which he is the vice
?resid.mtial nominee.
N?itlicr tariff tinkering, m.\ shifts
ior i'liv or the other political issues.
?? ? ns! sted, .an keep the South in
>ower nor r,store to her the glory of
talesmanshij. she enjoyed in national
? flairs before t lie Civil War if the drv
nus? is repulsed.
An open aimed nonpartisan welcome
net the "dry" special as it moved
^thuard io Nashville from Evans
i h t0'V,VV xvit'' Sl?l>s at Henderson
i . ' ''ilrliugton. Morton. Hop.
tinsville, Pembroke and ?."Jtithrie Kv
i"1 SprlngMeld. Venn. I.andrlth' tea
"red the day.
Partisanship d;.-appeiu vvl with th<
rosHing of the Ohio River. At Madi
oiiville. the chairman of the meeting
dandly announced his intention to vote
or M ouUrow Wilson, and tho hundred.*
?f unt ede; a: o soldiers present wh?
cere attending a r.union br..k.> int.
viId cheers and r*bC yells.
SUSPENDED BY I. C.
'??o,.o?r,l Increase- ,.rilJl| (f
Norfolk mill N,.? ,,?r, New* for
l<\ port i.. ||,. ImeMlirnted.
I l?V .^ssm iatt'il I'r.*-} '
AS 111 NO TON, October M.?Pro
? osed Increases in rates on grain tr
Norfolk and Newport News?for export
,a" tocremie in the coiiunodltv rat..
-poI'mM n' V00 ?ha,r- riC? "?Ush li"'>
cround rice hulls i? carloads from
x?w Orleans to .Jaekson. Miss., were
uspended by the Interstate Commerce
commission to-day for Investigation
J he export-grain tariffs wer, died by
.1^1 rn VaUia ?'?, ?1,. ("Jin
Innati Chicago and Si. Louis Rail
o.uls in commotion with the Ches-i
'caUe and Ohio and Norfolk an,,
i tS n Hit 11 roads. The suspended
terns provided for withdrawal ..f :in
xport commodity rate on era in in car
oads^irom Chicago to Newport New*
Norfolk. The present rate is I-.:
cuts. and the proposed domestic rato
s,|u l*?,r I JO pounds.
J lie rice-products tariff was died hv
ue New Orleans Clreat Xortl.ern Rail
' lhe Proposed rale I.eliiK II
?cr 100 pounds on the rice, instead ,.t
cents.
GETS FIVE YEARS IN PRISON
villi,,,,, Climter silberroann. ol
?ork. Sen Ieneed on Cliarnr of
'I'riMliiiK W illi lOneio.i.
I ? \ l ? l< ! A"??Clnted )'re?.s (
* "ot"'"'r 14 -William Chester
>.lhermann, of Xew York, has been
sentenced by the Correctional Court
0 live years in prison and r,00 francs
on a ehar^e of trading with tho
1 nc my.
Silbermann. according u. the prose
ution. came to Paris armed with pa
yors dcscrlblnsr him as the represenia
IVO Of the Knlffht Rubber foiiipnnv.
n tli'1 flrciiKth of these papers In- ob
aincd several important orders. lie
vos linally denounced by a Serbian
vho had known him in New Vork. and
yho said he was acting for Ooltwik
?cheffer i\ <:;o?. Mroadway. New
lork. a 0rni with Ocrman atllliations.
SITUATION AGAIN NORMAL
Wl.?. Were lien,lied lo s?h
??a? anil i:iev,i(eil Irnln, j?
>e?? \ orli U llhilrmiii.
I lt\ \ mii lat.>ii |
N:;u YORK. October H.?a return
<> normal eonditions in lhe city transit
'rikc situation was indicated to-day
y ih- withdrawal from subwav anil
leva ted trains and stations of all the
?oliceinen who were detailed on this
isslBument at ihe time the strike was
? ttended by disorder. The polb e wore
? it lid raw ii also from the surface cars
luriim- the daytime, bin will i i.le
hem ai nl^hl.
Kx. ept for sporadte caj iy-niornluK
Hacks on elevated trains bv -ton ?
h rowing- persons on rooftops." not hit iV
tas oecurrod during lhe past week to
equirc police attention.
Frank Carpenter
Look for His Alaska Letter in
the Sunday Times-Dtspat ch
Siclpmmil ?mes-pispatdj
Fix Your Own Car
Gucrrlich, in the Sunday T.-D
Will Tell You How
\
66th YEAR
\ Ol.l' MK >IH
Nl MltK.lt
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY, OCTOBER 15. 1916. -FIFTY-SIX PAGES.
f'T.TilAP
PPTr'W Trr^7T? rr\TTc
REITERATE RIGHT, ;
TO SEARCH MAIL I
ON NEUTRAL SHIPS1
Allied Governments Reply j
to U. S. Protest Against
Interference.. I
\
PROMISE TO REMEDY ,
ANY FAULTS OR ABUSES i
Declarc Unjustified Charge of j
Illegal Jurisdiction Gained by
Diversion of Vessels.
llJKNTir VOl'K IS Ki:Ci:iVKI>
Issue's .More Sharply IJoHnwl, but |
N'tvyt Move of This Country
Is Not Ucleriiiiiicd.
f 1?> Arts'*' ?! )
WASH IN< October H.? In their;
latest reply to A ni?*rl'"Ui protestsj
again1! inter!'. '-in' with itral mails.
?bade puMIc to-nisht by tin* Stat** I??*- |
111 ?? alli'd ^overninents ro
i t ??! :t t. tlx r liuht t-. Intercept ?and
search :> 1 i uenuine wail found on 11? -
tral vvb -I- on th. hlirh mm.1:, or in1
allied ports. !..it I hey promise to rein- i
??dy "any faults, abuses or serious mis- .
takes" in ce-tisorship tliat may bo j
'nought :?> their : ttent ion. They de
rlarc unjustified by fact the American
charge that Illegal Juri&rib-tion has j
been gained l>\ diversion ?.f neutral '
ships from the high kms into the terri
torial water.** of the allies. The next ^
move of 111r* American no' <>1 amerit lias
thirt government "
Tho not*', trunsniittJointly by the
liritish ami Urenrh governments, was'
delivered to I'm- Slat*? Departinent by,
the em'iasMies last Thursday. hut was
not made publ'c- until to-night by I
agreement <?f the governments con
cerned. It makes I'.-ply to Secretary
Landing's tn<'iitoranOiuii of .May -1, in
w hi<'h the I .'lilted Stat. - ib-flare I the'
allies hart been guilty of "lawless prac- 1
tiees" In their mail i ? nsorshlp methods. j
an.) that "only a radical ? liange. re- j
Storing to the I"n111 .-'tales its full J
rights as a neutral power, will satisfy I
this government.'
Till: HAG UK CHNXUNTHIN
!>??:< i.\iti:i> not iii.viiiMi ,
The allies maintain they are ".sin-:
ccrely endeavorins; to avoid any en
croachment on the leyitlinat.- exercise
? if the tights of inoffensive neutral
eiyr.mercc." and suggest that ?The
Hague convention (juoled in the Amer
ican mcmoranduiii is not binding 1k
.uuse it bus not been rati tied by sev- j
eral belligerent powers, though the
allied policy has been guided by the
Intentions it expresses.
The note is nearly .".,000 words in 1
length. It argues that the United
States and the allies agree that the
postal union convention does not ap
ply, and that postal packages may be.
examined t.. see if they contain con- '
traband. That being so. the note ?-on
tend.s It 1." necessary to open postal '
bags, and examination cannot take
place at sea without delay and in-'
convenience. Arrangements now have j
been made to en ivy on the examination
with the least possible delay, and to 1
forward innocent articles to their des
t inat ion.
The note, says tlie allies cannot aban- ,
don their right to prevent the fraud
ulent use by the. enemy of neutral j
mails for belligerent purposes. The '
case of the Atalanta is cited to show .
information can be an useful a means
of war as ammunition, and the note'
says information as to the military
operations and enemy plots in neutral :
countries, especially the United States, j
bas been discovered in this way.
The allied argument follows the line j
of President Lincoln's proclamation of;
May 12. ISC 2, which declared things :
and Informations as equally contraband
..f war, and cites the fact that in-i
terceposd enemy correspondence was i
used In the United States courts during
the Ulvil War and laid before Con
gress.
I VCIl 12 A SI"! I'lXA.NOAI,
IlKMISTAXCK OK KMiMlliS;
The contention of the United States, j
the note argues, that money-order lists ;
should be classed as genuine mail, and ;
not as merchandise, does not take inloj
consideration that such lists sent from j
the United States to Uermany and Aus
tria by mail correspond to money tie- j
posited In this country and serve as aj
. nolitlcation to postal authorities of the'
'Teutonic powers to pay out the j
amounts indicated, increasing the finaii-'
cliiI resistance of the allies' enemies. I
Itepiylng to Secretary l.ansing's dec-j
laratlon that the allies "compel neutral;
ships without Just cause to outer their j
own ports, thus n< quiring by force or!
nil justifiable means an illegal jurlsdic- .
tlon," the note says:
"The allied governments have never
differentiated between their treatment
' mails <*ii board a neutral vessel on
the high seas and those on board a;
neutral vessel coinpulsorlly diverted
to an allied port. They have always!
recognlxod that visit carried out in aj
port to whjch a vessel has been coin
pulvorlly diverted muni In this re<pect
li? ^iiniiimllaUil Jo visU on the high
seaei, atid the ivUlciajn pu. forward by.
the United States govern meat does not.
therefore, appear to the.n to be insti
lled,"
Tli? note a?c<? ili*ii'ii'i.' .lie practice of
exercising Jurladictloa and the right
ttf search ?vet a in .??-?haa. vessel call
ing of its own a a^ an allied port.
It conteofiu thas <<ie p.iu-.tlcc follow?d
by the powers lr. f?.!tcv wars estali
lishea tho g?uera o' li< iJ^ht to
csumino nmllr 'a; <1 of terr'.torh'l
waters.
The not?<>n. ? ii..o
"The Amer'.cnti ir.f i;or.-t:sd?:iM lays |
Ul-'fiiit stress on the view tbn'. the rights J
of neutrals and nf belligerents are j
aaoperi, ano mual ?'? "tr^ctb" ,
' " (0*ntinued""?n" 3o'cond Paye.)
Japan and Russia
Enter Protests
Objcct to Concessions Granted
Americans for Railway and
Canal Construction in China
Illy Press j
l'KKIXO, October 14.?Japan ;,i?j
Itussia entered protects to-day agalnat
'.oiicchfIoiih for railway nml ,.Hi?il con
?l! notion in i'hlna which have been
granted t? Amor ictus.
Prince Xicholas Koudaclieff. the Um.>
M.in mi,lister to China, lodged a pro
'* sl al lh'- Chinese I'urt-lKii Olllce
iigairtrit the proposed American railroad
|,v"Kcheiijf, Shansi Province. to
I?anthnu-Ku. in Kansu Province, alleg
ing that the Chinese minister in Petro
gritd promised Terbnjly eighteen years
ago tint Itussia shoul.l have ?he privi
lege or building railways in the vicin
ity of Mongolia.
liaron Com-ukc Mayashi, the Japa
nese minister to I'hiim. protested
against I lie agreement for the recon
struction of "_'00 miles of the Oraml
Canal. in Shantung Province. The
?Japanese claim, by reason of their con
?luest of tlio Province of Shantung, all
the rights heretofore held i.y Cermanx
ill I III' development of tint * *li i
province The Chinese Cove! n:,|.-Ill
contends that (ieruiaiiy must be dc
feat-.I before such claim will ho|.|
gOOd.
.\o ni I'K(?m*i:< i
or i;?vi:iimii:nt i MM ?:it>
??? v -i i i t'.'" 1'resc |
\\ A.*I f i.N< ,1 < October 14. Japa
;i""' It'ihslan protest# against the
latest American railway enterprise ij.
China may become a diplomatic subject
eventually, hut there j* ,,o immediate
proypeet of the government becoming
concerned unless the American Inter
ests affected should ask for aid or
cout.-nd that their rightv as A tiieri.-a t:s
are being infringed.
Inasmuch 12,locutio,. of the
American line has not been el..,*.,, :il,d
the contract makes provision ,
location ia . i-- su>h a protest should
he encountered, thee is possibility
that a solution may be found between,
the parties themselves, without the In
tervention of the State Department,
which up to the present lu.s r .?t been
identified J SI a II v wa\ ? t ? J j..
Ject.
I he government does not feel . ailed
upon to step mi at this, stage. because;
the American international Corporation
made its 1 ..m to China entirely upon!
Its own negotiations and let the con-'
tract for railroad buibliti-r to the'
Siems-Carev Co.. of St. I'aul. .Minn.'
No concession from China entered Into
the security ..r guarantees for the,
? oan, anil it ,s considered purely a
private enterprise. Stale Department:
oflicials were looking ft.r American ?
Minister Ueinsch. at Pekinir t... for-;
ward some repoi t.
Neaotiatioiis for Ameriean railway,
construction in China were concluded i
a fortnight ago, and called for a $00,
f.n,),000 loan by the American Interna
tional Corporation and the construction
as soon as possible of 1,500 miles of'
railway through the richest sections of
China. An optional contract for the
construct ion ..r an addlti o .1 i, '
miles of railway late: was .oiitained
In the agreement
GERMAN CLAIMANTS APPEAL.
Tnkr Hoi rrr off Virtrlnln I'eilrrol ? oiirt*
In t'nsf of the Appniu to *u
|i re me Court.
I My >sociat.:?! !'r, -
W ASHIXOTOX. October 14?tji'rnian ;
claimants appealed to-day to the Su- '
preme Court from the decree of the
\ irginia Kedoral courts awarding the
cargo of the prize ship Appam to Drli-'
ish Interests. Aiipeals against the de
cision awarding the ship to a rtritishj
lino already have been tiled. The ship j
represents Jl.250,000 and the cargo!
$000,000. Uoth appeals probably will ?
be heard together. The Appam was i
hrouerht into Newport News, a (lerman I
prize, several months ago.
SUGAR SUPPLY EXHAUSTED
l>rnli-M in Hrimniitllli', Te\.. *?rll
\ rt Icic it t fl.'i IVr I tin
I'mintlx,
f H> .\snociiit???l |
l?KO\VNSVIIjLK, TKX.. October H.?|
Granulated sugar sold at $1." per 100'
pounds on the local market to-day, be
cause. it was said, the supply in local
wholesale houses was exhausted, only
a half ilo/.en dealers were said to have
supply enough for the day. Wholesale
dealers said the closing of the re
iinories at Xew Orleans was the cause.'
Maple sugar, lock candy and mo- !
lasses wore used in place of sugar on
many breakfast tables this morning.
COLONEL AT WILKES-BARRE
Crlticlx** Attitude off I'reJtideot Wilson '
on ICIf^bt-lloitr liny for Itnil
roml Kmplo.rrcn. I
! By I * io . I
WILKKS-nARRR, PA.. October I f.? j
Theodore Roosevelt, speaking at a lie- !
publican mass-meeting here to-night, i
criticized the attitude of President Wil- j
son on the eight-hour day for railroad |
employees. He declared that arbitra
tion would have been the proper method i
of averting the threatened nation-vide
railway strike, and instanced the ap
plication of this principle in 1901! when
lie fettled the anthracite coal strike.
NOTABLE CALIF0RNIAN DEAD I
lir IIomi> From lliilclier'v Hoy to It?
Known iih ( intlt> Klnjc tiff
lite Wml.
...
1 M" Ai?cJa;ft| I'ivi.w, j
S.\N l-'KANC1SCO, October It.- Henry
Miller, one of California's nolahlo men, !
who ros o from butcher's boy to be!
known as the cattle klpg of lii<< West,!
and founder of the famous Miller and i
l.u.x pruperlles. died hem to-day, In hii*
ninetieth year, at the residence of tils {
daughter. Mrs. .1. heroy NMcltnl. llu
had been confined to his hod for nearly
two years.
BOTH NEAR-BEER AUTOMOBILE DAY ROUMANIANS MAKE:
AND MALT BARREO; IS EVENT OF FAIR' STAND ON FRONTIER
Mapp Act Covers Such Liquors,' Kline Car, Made in Richmond. Fighting Desperately to Pre
Even Though Containing Wins Twenty-Five-Mile J vent Troops of Central Powers
v No Alcohol. Speed Contest. From Entering Country.
ATTORNEY-GENERAL'SOPINION LARGE CROWD VIEWS RACES i RUSSIANS RUSH TO THEIR AID
^ , . _
Malt Beverages, Whether Intoxi- Interest Is Shown in Tests of Anglo-French Attacks on Somme I
eating or Nonintoxicating, Will Flexibility and Fuel Front Repulsed by Crown
Not Be Allowed. Consumption. Prince's Forces. j
? ailing .? Iialt upon (lit- preparations
of large m:>iiuf.icturers of malt liquors
in Virginia i" place i?|?*?n the market.
after Novenib.' 1. a lloo<! of nonititoxi
cating beverages, designed to take the
place ?>f !>???? Attornoy-Creneral John
<inHand I'.,Haiti yesterday ruled that
the term "inalt liquor," as contained!
In the Mapp prohibition act. is all
embracing. and excludes the sale of
all such beverages, whether Intoxicat
ing ? ? r nonintoxicating.
lit rendering this decision, the At
torney-' lencral cites the opinions of
appellate courts in a dozen States
where the question has conu! up for
determination. and quotes the Supreme
?'onrt of the United States in support
of Jus contention that prohibition of
nonalcoholir inalt liqliors is a valid ex
i reS.se of the police power of the State, j
and not in contravention of the four- j
tcenth amendment t" the Federal Con
stitution. which i?:ohihlts tbe taking
of propert> without due [.roc-ess of
)a w.
must mi'ouTwr i?i:< imo\
\s TO MA IT \<T i:\roit< ij.mi:\t
The decision as to the status of malt
liquors Is the most important the legal
department ??f the State lias yet ren
dered relative to Mie provisions of the'
Mapp ii'-t. and effectually sets at rest
the fear of ottlcei s charged with the
iuw's enforcement that numerous near
beer saloons scattered throughout the
State would add materially to their j
difficulties in enforcing the prohibition
laws-.
\o sooner than the Prohibition Com
missioner had taken the oath of oflice 1
u number "f concerns mintufaeturlng
malt liquors, made without fermenta
tion and containing absolutely no
alcohol, employed agents throughout
the State to handle their product, j
Commissioner Peters then submitted
to the Attorney-General the question
of whether the law permitted the sale
of such liquors.
The Supreme Court of Appeals, in an
opinion voiced by Judge lJuchanan. had
already decided that the term "malt j
liquors" includes both the intoxicating j
and the noiilntoxicuting _ syjrt. and. in;
light of this fuet. the Aitoi ney-tteuoral j
held that the General. Assembly of \'ir- ,
clnia. In prohibiting their sale, meant
to do just what is expressed in the ,
language of the statute.
HI OTi:s KltOM IJKCISION
hy Jt sTici; m i;iii:s
The next question which the Attor- j
ney-Ceneral had to decide was whether
the State had the power under the
Federal Constitution to prohibit the
sale of a malt beverage which was not
Iiito\icating. This same question had
already arisen in the State of Missis-1
sippi. and the Supreme Court of that
State upheld the Mississippi statute.
An appeal was taken to the supreme
Court of the United Stales 011 the j
cround that the prohibiting of the sale j
of a perfectly harmless, nutritions malt
liquor was a violation of the fourteenth
amendment, against taking liberty or
property without due process of law.
The case was tried on an agreed ,
stale of facts, wherein it was stated
that the drink was wholesome and j
nutritious and did not contain ulco-|
hoi or saccharine matter, and that ,
its taste and odor were distinctive, and 1
thut its appearance is such that it
would not probably be mistaken for
any intoxicating liquor.
Justice Hughes, now candidate of j
the Republican party for President. ,
delivered the opinion of the courts in J
the. case of 12x tract and T. Co. vs..
Lynch. 220 U. S.. 1S4-1S7. said:
"It is also well established that when
a State, exercising its recognised j
authority, undertakes to suppress what j
it is free to regard as a public evil. ,
it may adopt such measures having ?
reasonable relation to that end as it j
may deem necessary in order i" make |
its action effective.
II \ 1 PROHIBIT TIl.VITIt
IV XO.VAI.rOIHU.lt I.Hit Oil*
?It does not follow that because a j
transaction, separately considered, is ?
innocuous, it may not be included in ;
a prohibition the scope of which i
regarded as essential in tin legisla
tive judgment to accomplish a purpose
within the admitted power of the gov- ,
eminent. . . . tt is competent for j
the Legislature ... to recognize the
diillcultles besetting the administration j
of laws aimed at the prevention of I
traffic. in intoxicants. It prohibited. ,
among* other things, the sab nt 'malt j
liquors." In thus dealing with a class t
of beverages which, in general, are j
regarded as intoxicating, it was not
bound to resort to u discrimination I
with respect to ingredients and pro- i
cesses of manufacture which, in the j
endeavor to eliminate Innocuous bev- j
erages from the condemnation, would j
facilitate subterfuges and frauds and ,
fetter the enforcement of the law/ (
Thus the opinion of Attorney-Hen- i
eral Pollard to the effect that the j
term "all malt liquors' includes non- i
intoxicating malt liquors is lortilled
by the decision of the Supreme < ourt
of Virginia and the decisions of a dozen ^
other States, and the Attorney-'.en- ,
eral's opinion that prohibition of non
alcoholic malt liquors Is " |
ercisr of the police power of the Slate
Is founded on the decision of the high
est court in the country.
The theory upon which a State may
prohibit traffic In nonalcoholic, malt
liquors Is that the sale of such liq
uors may be used as a subterfuge and
render the enforcement of the lav
tigainsl the sale of Intoxicating liquors
more difficult.
(>\K HI AIIT A MONTII IS TO
HIC CONHTIU BD MTKHAI.I.Y
Making use of his prerogative to
rule on ilm niceties of language and.
at Ilia same time, hitting the variety
(Continued on Second Page )
BreaksLast Year's Record
I'lKurcn of tlir Vlr|;luiii llollmiv
ami l"o\Trr ('ompnn.v In.xt nlirlit
uliuuril (hut the dtrrot-iMir rricNlrm
lit the Mule Knlr (?ruuiidM linii ????!
n totiii or r.-.iirt r?rr* <iiirinK
? lie hitK, nn i-onipnreii tvltli TJt.OT1
ln*t jour, an in I'PriiM' <if I'.SSi,
It n II ?\i?y-| rn lllc ni???i wrrr tlir it u -
tliorlty fur the Mtiitrinriit Hint jit nr.v
friivel I Iii?< yrnr ivn* pmlinlilj tlirrr
times tliiil <>f luHt year <111 Nrvpral
ilny* iti i Im- tvrrk. Tin* xtrrrt citrv
lilt ii 11- il tl.oiNi |iiiHM?>iiK<*rN from tlir
uriiiimio ycitrriluv, ni i-ompnreil
ultli l.:?l- (lit* Kiimr ilny Inxt ji*iir,
lint. Iielnt; \ 11 toniulille Ilny. It mm
?-?t iniiitril i lull mure < Ii it ii Ii ii 11 tlionr
In lit If inliilu'r imeil innInr i-nra yr<
I ITllll I .
".Jimmy Junior," n Kline rar. made
in Richmond. finished first yesterday
afternoon in the twenty-flve-mile race
at the Stat'.' l-'air <'.rounds. making the
trip rit nearly :i mile for the mi mi to.
The oilicial time was 2!i:2 3-." for the
course The lirst uiile. run at break
neck speed. was rt.n in a minute ami
tliirtoen seconds. The Jast mile was
made in one minute and seven seconds.
The finish was of Hie whirlwind order.
"Jimmy Senior" rushing up close be
hind. with only a few seconds lacking.
In the economy test, run on a half
gallon of gasoline. the prize was won
?>y 'Cook. in an Oakland, for the
six-ey)ind< i class, making ten and one
tenth nii!?:>?. This eup was donated by
Tlie Times-Dispatch. A Maxwell car.
a 1 our-cylimier, made thirteen ami
three-tenths miles on the half-gallon
of gasoline. A. !?;. Ijonnan. driving1 an
eight-cylinder Seripps-Booth ear. ran
for eleven and one-tenth miles.
In the automobile contest, chief fea
ture of the fair, he quick get-away
for a quarter of a mile was won by a
Hudson car in twenty-four and* one
Hftli seconds;. The slow quarter-mile
contest was won by a Kiug car in ten
minutes and forty seconds. The indi
vidual-owner prize was won by C. I".
Sauer, with an Owen-Magnetic, in ten
minutes and thirty-one seconds. The
three-mile race for Kurds was won by 1
William Booker. with John II. Oallum, i
of Norfolk, second, the latter winning t
the . up offered by the Jefferson Hotel.
i? ii a v wi.vs Mo rimcvcw:
t'HA.MIMO.V.ciIir 4*1* VIIICIMA
The live-mile race for motorcycles
for the championship of Virginia was'
won by Gray, who made the distance j
in The five-mile open contest I
was won by honhatn, of Washington,
in ."iris. Another open contest was won
by Walker in 5:1::";.
In spite of the terrific speeding, there |
were no serious accidents. One of the ,
motorcyclists. One Walker, fell from |
his machine on the eastern turn in the j
raceway, ffe was lifted back by Dr. '
i.: re en and Driver Hoy Ford, of the
city ambulance corps, and was again
started on his way. Me finished sec- '
ond, negotiating the wire at a speed 1
which brought the grand-stand crowd j
to its feet. |
1 he automobile anil motorcycle races :
were the feature of the day. All other ,
acta were given. Miss May Kggloston. '
the high diver, who was injured in her
performance on Friday afternoon, made
yesterday a successful leap. The wind
had died down, and she was unburn- I
pered in her descent. Her blind bus- i
band sat by to hear her when she
struck the water. His sightless eves
moved, so as to show that he knew
she had dropped in proper form.
.Miss Katheriue Stinson. the nineteen
year-old aviator, did not ascend yes
terday, her contract with the assoeia- j
tion having been completed on the day!
before. She was on the grounds, how
ever, and in the afternoon was visited
by students of the aviation school at
Vewporl .Yews.
MAIIlllAliK TAKKS I'l.At K
IV Fit <> NT OF fill A Ml .ST A\1)
I Miring an interim between the races
"Hilly ' Danube. <>i the Four Danube j
Brothers, who appear in a casting act,
and Miss Olive Kills, a member of the j
Tasmanian Troupe, were married by
"I'arson" Mike. .Macon on the eastern
platform. Mr. and Mrs. Hal Baker,
of the Four Danubes. acted as at
tendants. and the immediate witnesses
were policemen. The Fair Associa- !
tion presented the couple with a
check for SI00 as a wedding present, !
and other gifts were bestowed on i
bride and groom by their personal 1
friends. Afterwards Mr. and Mrs. !
Danube took an automobile trip in
front of the grand stand, and the
young woman, liirilled with the now
experience, rose from her seat to wave
her hands nt the crowds thronging the
fences and the stand.
Throughout the afternoon the grand !
stand was packed, and the paddock
was filled with extra hundreds. Other 1
thousands lined the track fences, all 1
taking interest in the automobile races.
When the features were finished, when ,
the last diving girl had left, her pool, '
when "Jack" Drlscoll and Misses van
Deinse any Hoot had sung their last >
songs for the day and when the last
automobile race had been run. the
crowds betook themselves to the ex
hibit buildings and the amusement
lanes to look upon things of cduca- j
tionnl Interest. More than SO.OrtO peo
ple, it is estimated, were in attend- :
(Continued or. Kl>;hth I'ageTi
t. o. n.
Sef Our Ail on Puce S. Part 6.
l,ONI>JN. October 1 I. -Standltijs on1
their own frontier. the Uoumanian '
troops who recently invaded Transyl
vania from the south :i*id e.is-t arc'
I
lighting desperately to prevent the I
forces of the central poweiv from
entering; Itoumauia. Kussian rt-en- 1
forcements are being i ?-*lt? t the
aid of the Roumanian;-, a wireless
repoi t from Rttkharbst says, and it is!
i
announced thai King Ferdinand will !
tak<? tin- Held ai the lie..d ..f his!
harassed troops.
In Kastern Trnnsylvan.a and on the
southern border the ,\ustrn*f!crmaii
forces continue to inak* progress.
against the invaders. Fast ' Csik
Szereda tin- advance 'had yet
halted, and west of tlie Vulc.ci nass
Uonmaniaii attacks have been checked.
Merlin reports. j
Fighting on the frontier northeast
of Kronstadt. the Roumanians have
rocaptured a Roumanian village south
east of (?rim from the Austro-'Jerman !
forces. Kukharesl also reports the i
capture of .Mont Siguiello and a fron
tier town in tlie region of I'elrosonv.
with si-vcro losses to ? the Teutonic
forces. The wireless dispatch front j
lSukharest also announces that a com
mission of French ollicers Is on the'i
way to tlie Koumaniau capital to the j
aid of the hard-pressed generals of j
King Ferdinand. More than 15,000
prisoners. Kukharest says, have been ? 1
taken by the Roumanians oil the va
rious fronts tip to the present time.
*?\\o\ iti-;<;mi-:vrs win
POIITION OK AMIIO* WIIOI),
Anglo-French attacks on the Sonune
f:uiit, in Northern France, have been
repulsed by the troops of Crown ;
Prince Kupprecht of Kavari;i. l'.erlin <
records the capture by Saxon regi
ment" of a portion of Ant bos wood,
north of Ohaulnes. south of the'!
Honune. More than '".'lo prisoners |
were taken by the Germans.
North of tlie Homme French troops
have made progress on the Malassise j
Ridge. and south of?the river they
e jected German troops who had re- I
captured a portion of Ablaincourt. No ' i
activity for the troops of General Tluig i
is reported.
Oil the other battle front.-1 in Km-1:
rope there have been no important ' <
changes. ? ?n the Carso the Italians
have advanced slightly and gained
some additional ground from tlie Aus
trian!*.
The losses ??:' the liritish. Kussian
and French armies on the eastern ami
western fronts since June 1 the mili
tary expert of the Overseas New
Agency of l'.erlin estimates at approxi
mate^ 2,000,000 men.
The sinking of the small French ,
cruiser Iligel in the Mediterranean on
October 'j by a German submarine is,
I announced from l'ejlin.
sni \ i.i. nmstii ciirisi:n
Sl Xli |?v SMI1I UtINK
1 IV Associated Press. I 1
MKliI.IN. October 14 fvia London).? i
The small French cruiser ltigcl. built
as a submarine destroyer, was sunk (
in the Mediterranean on October 2 by ,
two torpedoes tired by a German sub- ?
marine, it was ollicially announced here ^
' this afternoon.
German submarines oil October -t.
the Admiralty statement adds, sank
the French auxiliary cruiser Gallia,
i Of the Serbian and French troops on ,
board bound for Salon Iki about I.OOi)
1 were drow lied.
KIM. OF ItO I MA VI \ TO
TAKE I'OMtlA.MI OK V It >111'lS
! In Ahsiii'IuUmI Press. I
BIK ilAUIi.ST. October H ? fby wire-,
less to l,ondon).? Kintr Kerdinauiul of
I Roumnnia. it was announced to-day. i
I will personally take supreme com-)
'maml of ih?> Kussian and Roumanian i
armies.
Considerable Kussian re-, nforcenients *
are expectetl to arrive in itoumania.
A mission of French ollicers, which
i will include General Herthelot, a well
j known military strategisl. also is com
j ins n> link ha rent.
j'l-HOIirS OK CKXTllAI. POWI.HS
?; AI N ON KHO.VTIEI* PASSES
'l!\* Associated Press. 1
1JKKL1N. October 11 ('via London).?
Troops of the central powers have
i gained ground in the vicinity of the |
i frontb-r passes of Itudzenland. In
Transylvania. says to-?la,v's German of
; fleial statement. Three hundred Rou
manians were taken prisoners and six
I machine puns were caplurei
Till TONIC AIIVAXCK IN
TIC WSYIi\ A.N IA I O.VI'INI KS
! llv Associated Press. I
VIF.NNA. October HI (via London.
October it) The Teutonic advance In
Transylvania is continuing, and the
| Roumanians have been driven from the
upper Alt and Maros Valleys into the
? frontier mountains, says to-day's War
1 oilic statement. Progress is also
being made against the Roumanian
forces III the Kronstadt region.
tlF.IIMANJi (iAIN POIITION
OK A.IIIIIIOS WOOD
I ltv Associated Press. I
IlICUI.IN. October It (via Loudon).
?I'IU, battle between French and Ger
man troops for the French town of
Ablaincourt. south of the River Son;ine,
has b? ? n revived v\ ith German suc
cesses. says tlie. otlicial statement is
tmed to-day by the German army head
quarters staff The Germans have
gained a portion ot' Am tiros wood and
[hove taken 100 prisoners.
1 uiv,' u, X? JL r JJJ v/J.'/ IN 1
PRESIDENT DEFINES
HIS IDEA OE ISSUES
Declares America Always Is
Ready to Fight for Things
That Are American.
; DISCUSSES ATTITUDE
OF REPUBLICAN PARTY
'Change Means Undefined Altera
tions of Policy, and Invis
ible Government.
FOHCKS OF REACTION COXTHOL
!Selection of Congress, Ho Says. Is
.ln*.t as Important as Election
of Chief Magistrate.
I liy Associated Press.!
R RANCH, N. J.. October 14.-.
in :i speech before a largo delegation
of Pennsylvania Democrats, who camo
here with bands playing and banners
llying. President Wilson declared to- ;-j
d:iy that, wttiio he. is for pcaoe, "Amer
iea is always ready to light for things
? iliat are A lucrlean." Ho summed up
| his idea i>i" the issues o? the present
: campaign in these words:
( "America Knows that it Is fated '
with this elioicu: pcaoe, the continu
ance of th? development of business
i along th?? lines which it lias now estab
lished and developed, and tlio mainten
ance of well-known progressive linos
of action. on the one hand; or, on the S
other, a disturbance of policy all alone
the line, new conditions, new adjust
ments. nndetliied alterations of policy
and. bael; of ii ' invisible govern
ment."
The President discussed what he de
clafed was the attitude toward war and
peace r#f different elements of the Re
publican party.
"T understand t"r?? in the leaders of the
Republican party that nothing has been
done right," he said. "They do not say
that the thing done was always wrong,
but the way in w hieh it was done was
always wrong. They do not venture
to say?that is. t li ?> private counsel
does not venture to say?that ho wanted
anything but peace, but they would ?
have preferred some otliet* way, not.
disclosed, of obtaining peace. The
vocal part says, 'U'o wanted war.' Tho
silent part Intimates that, we wanted
peace, but wanted another ltlnd oC
peace. They can never get over that
f fundamental uneasiness, gontleinen,
! that America is in charge of somebody
else than themselves. I'.ut America
(knows I hat the things that were done
| did obtain pence, and it does not know
the thinus that might have been done \
I would have obtained peace."
' mrossnii.r. to i>o wvtiiixi;
l\ Kl 111. 11 OP l'dltKltiX AKKAIIIS
.\li Wilson reiterated previous dec
larations that it is almost Impossible
t>> do anything in the Held of foreign
af/alrs, because foreign nations "have
been led to believe that a dominant
.lenient in the Republican party Is in
favor of drawing the Pnited States into
the iiuropean war, and they have been
i told, with abundant evidence, that It
, is probable that if the Republicans suc
ceed we shall enter upon a policy
j of exploitation <?f our neighbors in
.Mexico."
i/oulinuing his discission of the t'or
elgn affairs of the nation. Mr. Wilson
j declared that although the leaders of
the Republican party demand that the
I rights of Americans he protected overy
' where, on one occasion 1'ut "Itcpubli
t can machine was able to compel a ma
j jorlty of Its members In the IIouso of
j Representatives to. vote that American
! citizens had no rignt to travel on the
' high seas." lie added:
"If their leaders believe in tho rights
of American citizens, why don't their
followers? If their leaders arc so stiff
? t<> see that Americans get their rights
everywhere, why do these men VOto
that Ainerleam shall uct their rights
nowhere',' Ouo of the most regrettable
incidents of American history is that
there should have been found men in
the Oonuri ss of the Pnited States will
. ing t<> vote In that sense."
Mr. Wilson reitorated his advocacy
of a league of nations to preserve the
peace o.' the world, and attacked the
' leaders of the Progressive party, who.
he s lid, had betrayed tho rank ami tile,
lie also declared that the* selection of
;i Congress is Just as important as the
(election ef a President, because "the
I real source of action and the real nia
j chin* "> of obstruction is in Congress."
POltPP.S nl'1 lUOAPTlOV IN
? ?>NTHOl. OK ItlRM BI.UA>*
lie ..ssi-rted that the forces of rcac
t tiuti are in control of the Itepublicaus
in Congress.
>?.? , <". McCormiel;, chairman M
the neii'icratie National Committee.
? presidi'.l at the meeting, an<! A. Mit
chell P timer, democratic national com
mitteeman from Pennsylvania. inM-"
duced Mr. Wilson. The delegation,
which came here on e'uht special trains,
constituted the largest iitnlloiice which
has heard the President speak n?
Shadow I,awn. Alter the speech the
President shook bat ds with everybody
present.
President Wilson n hi-- speech here
to-day said in part
"I need not tell \ on 'tat i ill) gltl
i seo you. but let .? ? ? - .-<*>? that I an
especially glad to s,-< ye; ??jianso t' i u; -a
are some thincs which perhaps Penn
sylvanians are more (|ualitled to tell
about than any othe ? people In the
I United States. They are better quall
I fed to testify as to the subtle and in
tricate means by which the purposes of
the people are sotnetiir.es defeated by
their government, because I know how
triifs i' is that the people of Pennsyl
vania have again and again attempted
to demonstrate to the rest of the
Union that they believed that we hud
come inii> a new age. that they believed
that this new age required new ele
ments of policy, that they denlred mm
