THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and warmer to-day; to-morrow,
fair: moderate variable winds. '
Highest temperature yesterday, 57; lowest, 43.
Detailed weather, mall and marine report on pace 10.
IT SHINES FOP. ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 45.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1916 . Copyright, If M, by tht Sun Printing and Publtthtng Aatoeiatton.
56 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
COLONEL TELLS
MINERS 8 HOUR
LAW HURTS ALL
Attacks Wilson for Not Up
holding Principle of
Arbitration.
PRECEDENTS FORMED
IX RIG COAL STRIKE
Labor 3Ienaced When Con
gress Was Forced to
Act in Haste.
NO CHANCE GIVEN
FOR INVESTIGATION
Wilkesbarro Speech Also
Urges Tariff to Keep Up
Wages After War.
WitKEB.uiRE. Pa., Oct. 14. Theo
dore Roosevelt, b peaking at a Repub
lican mass meeting; here to-night, criti
cised the attitude of President Wilson
on the eight hour day for railroad em
ployees. Ho declared that arbitration
would have been the proper method of
averting tho threatened nationwide
railroad strike, and Instanced the ap
plication of this principle In 1902 when
he fettled tho anthraclto coal ntrlke.
Mr. Roosevelt's trip here from New
Tork as Rooseveltlan In every minute
detail. He started shaking hands when
he reached the Twenty-third street
ferry, where he met two num. half a
doien truck drivers,; several ticket chop,
pers mid all the uniformed employee of
the place and kept It p all the way.
At Newark he pot his first big hand.
A crowd of several hundred crowded
ibout to Rive him a hurrah and a hand
clasp. There were so many he couldn't
srtet every one.
Sorry lie's Xot Oetopaa.
This Is the time I'm aorrjr I'm not an
octopus." he exclaimed.
There was a similar scene at Kas'.on.
The. crowd thero was unusually demon
strative. "Tear 'em up, Teddy!" was the yell
that arose. '
"That's what I'm going; to Wilkes
birre for." the Colonel shouted, "and
I'll do It In straight United States."
Roosevelt drew a big laugh at Allen
town. He noticed a grizzled old man
with a a. A. R. button In his coat lapel.
"What's your regiment T' asked tho
Colonel. ,
"Forty-eighth Tennsy," wns tho an
iwer. "Voti weren't too proud to tight,"
Hoosevelt called with an emphasis on
the "you."
Sixty thousand turned out at Wilkes
Mrrn. A band led tho procession to the
hotel and then tooted Hoosevelt all the
y to the State armory, whero the
speech was delivered.
The Colonel's Address.
"I have accepted the Invitation to
come to Wllkesbarre to discuss the
Aclamion law, because Wilkesbarro Is
the headquarters of the great Industry
In connection with which I myself as
1 resident was brought Into close and In
timate touch with tho labor movement In
this country. If what I have to sjy Is of
any value It mud be not only liecause It
represents what in the abstract Is right,
but also because In the concrete I ap
plied, in arttml nraMU. ...I... i f .
m !,hc '""'"dPl" "blch I ciltlolsc
vr. v iison for not applying now. There
fore, I nh to recapitulate to you Just
hit occurred In connection with the
anthracite coal strike and to contrast It
with "hat Mr. Wilson has done In con
iicctlon uith the law for the Increase of
laces on railroads.
"In the case of tho settlement of the'
anthracite oal strike, the action I took
as of precisely the kind which Presi
dent Wilson now says the law should
trial., obligatory In all rlmllar cases In
the- future, Hut Mr. Wilson himself ad
nilts that his own action was so bad
that It ought never to be repeated, for
he has assured the public that although
ongrejs has adjourned without doing
anything. It Is his Intention when Con
gress meets to see that It does something
to render It Impossible for another Pros
dent ever to repeat exactly what he tins
Just done,
"In other words, I stood and stand by
my action as the proper action, consti
tuting the proper precedent for future
action. Mr. Wilson himself confesses
that his action was wrong nnd that the
precedent thereby set Is so evil thit leg.
lrlatlon must bo enacted rendering It lm
possible for another President ever to
repeat tho action."
Ilerlens ttncceaaful Arbitration.
The Colonel here reviewed the suc
cessful arbitration of the coal strike
fourteen years ago and of his threat to
run the mines by force. If need be. Then
he added:
"It fet the precedent for the course
that ought to be followed In all disputes
f this nature hereafter. Mr. Wilson, on
the contrary, has set a precedent which
he hlnuelf admits must never hereafter
be followed If Justice Is to be done. Mr.
Wilson had before lilm tho precedent I
had created, and he had ns Instruments
icady to hand the Arbitration Hoard and
the Interstate Commerce Commission,
with Its enlarged powers. Ilut he failed
to follow the precedent, or to use the
instruments which were ready to his
hand. Mr, Wilson, with all the agencies
f'f law subject tn his command. Ignored
them, destroyed tho principle of arbitra
tion In the settlement of Industrial dis
putes and put a premium on securing
this settlement hy threat and duress.
"All that he accomplished was the vio
lation of the principle In the present, In
the concrete case at Issue. The only law
he leeured established the precedent of
vloUtlon of tho principle. All that he
did Has to establish tho most evil of all
preudi nts for a democracy, the prece
dint ci violating a principle under the
dtireis of threat and menace, ft Is n
precedent which will return to plague us
throughout all future time whenever we
CsnMntMd on Blavinth Pig.
COLER IS REGISTERED
IN UNFINISHED HOUSE
Summons Issued for Former
City Official ou Police
man's Complaint.
Bird H. Coler, former Horough Presi
dent, of llrooklyn, City Comptroller and
Democratic candidate for Governor, Is
not to be arrested for Illegal registration
on his return to the city, thanks to Mag
Istrate Oeismar, but he will be called
upon to tell why he gave J 70 New York
avenue. Hrooklyn, ns his legnl residence
wnen there Is no house there.
Just what Mr. Coler's explanation will
po could not bo learned yesterday, as he
la In North Carolina, but the lines It will
probably take were outlined at his office
in Manhattan. He formerly lived In a
detached house at the New York avenue
address, but moved while It was making
way for an apartment houso, Intending
to taku an apartment In tho latter build
ing. .Policeman Abram Krumkln of the At
lantic avenue precinct. In applying for a
warrant, pointed out that Mr. Coler, no
matter what his Intention, does not live
at the New York avenue address. The
building Is less than half completed.
Magistrate Oelsmnr Issued a summons
for Coler Instead of a warrant.
Mr. Coler registered on Tuesday ns a
resident of tho Third Election district,
eighteenth Assembly district. Police
nnd registration officials hold that his
country homo at Mount Carmel Is his
legal residence. , ,
RIOTERS STONE TWO
168TH STREET CARS
Conductors nnd Motormen
Beaten; Passengers In Panic;
Four Arrests.
Following withdrawal of policemen
from the surface enrs a group of strikers
and sympathizers attacked two 16Sth
street crosstown cars at Third nvenue
late yesterday afternoon, smashed the
wlndowi with stones, beat the con
ductors and motormen, drove the pas
sengers In panic to the street and cut
the trolley wires. Tour men were ar
rested. Commissioner Woods's order relieving
policemen from duty on tho surfjee cars
went Into effect In the morning, but ap
plied to day car service only: during the
night the detail was continued. On Fri
day Commissioner Woods withdrew his
men from the elevated and subway sta
tions. One of the lGs'th street ears wns In
charge of Conductor Marcus Meyer. Tho
car stopped at the Third avenue crossing
and a dozen men or so ran out toward
It. Leaping aboard three of them
pointed revolvers at Meyer nnd pum
melled and kicked him and the motor
man flsd nmfil n .hnwnr nf t'nn. U'lmn
. another cir came along on the name
tracks, the rioters pursued similar t.ic
J tics. Reserves were hurried from the
Morrlsaula police station to rescue Con
ductor Wilbur Hawkes of the second
damaged cur.
The prisoners are Charles Oalvln,
310 West 135th street, charged with as
sault; Samuel Rercu, r.5l Fox street:
Lrtuls Stcrnburg. 1020 Avenue St John,
and Patrick McCabo, H9T Hrynnt ave
nue, nil charged with disorderly conduct.
William II. Fitzgerald, general or-
I gnnlzer of the strikers, nt a meeting out
side me continental Hotel, Jlroadway
and Forty-first street, under tho aus
pices of the League for Municipal
Ownership, berated the newspapers.
Mayor Mltchel and tho Public Service
Commission.
Hires 100 strike Ilreabers.
Haltimorr, Oct. U, K. A. Maher
vice-president of the Third Avenue Kail-
' way system of New York, to-dav opened
, an office here to enroll strike breakers
to rtllcvo the street car strike sltua
I tion In Now York. Nearly 100 men
hayo already been sent tJ tho greater
city, and Maher expects to emoll an
equal number by to-night.
NORMAN PHINCE WOUNDED.
Boston Man, Aviator With French
Army. Suffers llrnken Legs.
Paris, Oct. 14. Norman Prince of i
Boston, sergeant-major In tho Franco-.
American aviation corps, who whs Owl '
rated for distinguished services last
weeK, tins ueen wounaeu. iiotn Princes
legs nro broken, but his condition Is re
ported satisfactory.
Norman Prince Is a Harvard grad
uate, who gave up a law practice In Chi
cago to volunteer for service with the
Allies. He waa decorated In October,
lOIU, for destroying a German war plane.
His machine was shot down In an aerial
battle over Verdun Inst Juno, but he es
caped without Injury and was reported
recently to have brought down two Her
man aeroplanes In Alsace.
MAYOR BACK WITH ONE MOOSE.
Mltchel Kara He Could Have Shot
Many Drer on Canadian Trip.
After a nine days huntln? trip In
Canada, In which he bagged one bull
moose, Mayor Mltchel arrived In the city
with Mrs. Mltchel ejrly yesterday. He
said ho felt tine, and his appearance
emphasized his words.
Mr. nnd Mrs. Mltchel went directly to
their home In the Peter Stuyvesant,
NIncty-olghlh street and Riverside
Drive. The Mayor said he could novo
got many deer, but he had not wanted
them, an ha wis after mooso nnd con
Mldered his otj trophy enough. He and
Mrs. Mltchel were the guests of Mr. and
Mrs. Walter a. Kellogg of Ogdensburg
at the Pontine name Club, In the woods
north of Ottawa. They camped out
several nights. Mrs. Mltchel did not do
any shooting,
NEW FACE FOR BAT NELSON.
Pnslllst. to Weil, Will Have FIKhl
Sears llemored.
ClltCAOo, Oct. 14. Battling Nelson,
the pugilist, it was announced to-day,
has engaged specialists to remodel his
ears, nose and Hps and remove from
them the scars of his many battles,
Nelson said he hoped to get married.
Hlahop Hreer Much Better.
The Right Itev. David II. flroer, epis
copal Illshop of New York, who has been
suffering from an attack of neuritis, was
greatly Improved yesterday and probably
will be ablo to rssuma his duties In a day
or two.
BOVIC SAW U-BOAT
CHASE HELLIGOLAV
Ilut Agents of Danish Liner
Discredit Story When Cap
tain Reports Safety.
ONLY PERISCOPE SHOWED
White Star Skipper Says Scan
dinavian Boat Altered Course
as If Being Pursued.-
Fears for the safety of the steamship
llelllg Olav of the Scandinavian-American
Line, aroused- yesterday morning by
the -report of Capt. J. J. Jones of the
White Star liner Uovlc that he had seen
a submarine In pursuit of her, were
allayed later In the "day whcn'the'agcnU
of the Scandinavian-American Line re
ceived a mcssago from the Danish ves
sel. It was the usual midday com
munication giving' her location. No'men
tlon of submarines was contained In It.
Capt. Junes, whose vessel arrived from
Manchester at 6 o'clock, related to the
pilot as the Hovic came up the harbor
that he had sighted the periscope of the
submarine about :30 Friday morning.
Through his marine glasses, ho said, he
reassured himself about the type of the
vessel. That It was In pursuit of the
Hellig Olav was indicated, ho said, by
two sudden swerves In the course of tho
Danish liner. Apparently she was try
ing to zigzag- out. of the range of tho
submarine's torpedoes, according to the
narrative of the Uovic's commander.
Reports to A'HTal Attache.
He repented his story nftcrwnrd In
the White Star offices. So tlrm was ..o
In his belief that he was called to the
office of Capt. Cluy Haunt, llrltlsh Naval
Attache, to whom he repeated his story.
Credence attached to Capt. Jones's re
port becauso In the region he gave the
l"-S3 last Sunday sent five vessels to the
bottom. The submersible when sighted by
Capt. Jones wa.s within sixty miles of
Nantucket lightship.
However, despite the fullest faith In
the Integrity of the liovlc's commander,
doubt ns to tho pursuit of the Hellig
Olav became more pronounced as the
day wore on. These were some of tho
reasons why the report wa.s discredited:
The submarine pursued the vessel of
a neutral that carried no contraband.
Ily so doing It Ignored the llovlc. the
vessel of an enemy, and known to be
engaged In the shipment of munitions.
In the region mentioned by Capt.
Jones the dtstroyers of the United States
navy have been on patrol for tho entire
week. There have been no reports from
them of the presence of an underwater
destroyer.
British Warning Unrenewed.
Fully twenty-eight hours elapsed be
tween th time Capt. Jones said he saw
th Hellig Olav followed and the ves
sel's own report to Its agents. In that
report or In the one filed the day before,
three nnd n half hours nfter the alleged
hunt, nothing whs rnM by Capt. Holt
of the Hellig Olav of being forced out
of hlK course by a submailne.
Finally, the Hrllish Oovernment,
whose Naval Attache heard the Jones
report, made no effort to renew Its warn
ing to vessels about to pass the danger
spot. Twelve vessels departed from
Philadelphia yesterday, most of them
carrying munitions, nnd from New York
thrru vessels, nlso with munitions car
gots. pissed out the harbor.
"The weather was clear and It was
:3u In the morning," said Capt. Jones.
' It was about the position whero tho
British steamship Stratbd.-ne was sunk
last Sunday. There is not the slightest
doubt In my mind that what 1 saw was
a periscope. It was moving toward tho
Danish boat at a good rate of speed.
"We had passed the Hellig Olav when
the submarine made for her. We saw
the Hellig suddenly stop, veer off to the
eputhuntd nnd then swerve sharply to
the vnst, as though trying to zigzag
away from tho submarine."
Untie Heady for Attack.
The Hovic mounts .1 t.T gun. Capt.
Joins said that If the submarine had
menaced hltn nt all he would havo flted
on It. However, as no attempt w mad.)
to hnlt him he desisted from Intel Ter
ence. No doubt of the Identity of the Hellig
lav could have existed. She flew no
llHgs whn Capt. Jones sighted her. but
on" her sides slio had her niitne ps luted
'n large letters with two Danish ll.iga.
Halvor Jacobsen, agent for the Scandinavian-American
Line, sahl that not
once since tho beginning of the war has
she carried n contrubsnd cargo.
"It Is ridiculous to suppose that the
Hellig Ol.iv would flee a submarine"
said Mr. Jacobsen last night. "We have
been stopped by both sides ever since
the beginning of the war. If a sub
marine hove In sight Capt. Hoist cer
tainly would not have tried to get away.
There Is not the slightest doubt In my
mind that the Hellig Olav is safe. Her
message have been of the kind that arc
sent only when everything Is well."
The messnge received yesterday after
noon gave her location nt noon as 653
miles from Ambrose lightship. Mr.
Jacobsen sent a message to tho vessel's
captain after Capt. Jonos'n report. Up
to midnight ho had received no answer.
AEROS TO PATROL COAST
The North Carolina. Kqnlpped
With Fliers, Reaches Newport.
Newport, It. I Oct. 14. Three of the
reserve licet of tho destroyer force, the
Smith, Lamson and Monaghan, havo
arrived here, showing that the Navy De
partment evidently Intends to use these
boats In the rnval patrol of the coast.
The arrival this morning from the
South of the flying machine ship of the
Atlantic fleet, tho armored cruiser North
Carolina, leads to the belief that pos
sibly the aeroplanes on the ship are to
lie employed In the search problem, too.
The North Carolina Is to go to the Torts
mouth Navy Yard after stops at New
London and Hoston.
The torpedo training ship Montana
and tho Illrmlngh'am, flagship of the de
stroyer force, are still hero, and there
were nineteen destroyers In the bay to
day also, all ready for Instant call to sea.
Portlanp, Me., Oct. 14. Ths torpedo
boat destroyer Drayton, one of the
neutrality patrol boats engaged In a
senrch for submarine bases, came Into
this harbor to-night after Inspecting the
nonst between here and Portsmouth,
N. II. The Drayton put Into fiaco Hay,
among other places, and residents of Old
Orchard who examined her through
marine glasses thought sho was con
voying a submarine, but observers at the
coast guard station at Blddeford Tool,
who had a close view of the Drayton,
said alia wad unaccompanied.,
GERMANY DEFENDS U-BOAT
WARFARE NEAR COAST OF U. S.
Semi-official Overseas News Agency Says Promise to
American Government Will Be Kept and
Neutral Rights Respected.
HrnttN (by wireless to Sayvlllo), Oct'
14. tn answer to tho report sent out
by the British wireless that tho (lerman
submarine' U-D3 "torpedoed In some
cases and sank" ships, a competent
German authority, rays tho Overseas
News Agency, makes tho following
statement:
"The commercial war near the coast
of the United States Is being carried on
according to rules nnd tho Herman
promise, which means that a merchant
man can be stopped and that after tho
vessel has been ecurehed and the crew
nnd passengers are In safety, the vessel
can be sunk under certain conditions.
"The conditions are, for Instance,
when a hostile steamer' or a neutral
steamer carrying contraband of war Is
Involved or whon the military situation
makes It Impossible to bring a steamer
which has been captured Into port ns a
prize.
Warning- Mast Be Given.
"In no case, however, can this be
construed to mean that a merchantman
may be sunk by u torpedo without pre
vious warning.
"According to further reportB from
Washington, the American authorities
are said to be afraid that very compli
cated questions of neutrality may nrlse
If the Herman submarines operate so
near tho American coast and that such
submarine action Is equivalent to a
blockade. '
"To this It Is stated that 'the German
sea forces ore entitled to carry on a .
cruiser warfare anywhere In the open
sea. Territorial waters of neutral States-,
arc carefully respected. A blockade, of
course. Is out of the question. Only hos
tile ships, as prizes, or neutral vessels I
that carry contraband were stopped.A!
blockndo means tho capture of nil ships
steering toward or leaving a blockaded'
coast without regard to Hag or cargo.
Denies Iteport of Base Here.
"The question asked by one American
Journal ns to whether It 'is necessary
that our coast be made a base for a
Herman submarine' must be considered,
superfluous, since the t.'-S3 on touching
at Newport did not even usu her right to '
take on fuel and food, to which as a,i
man-of-war yhe was entitled.
"No sensible American citizen will be-i
llevo that u secret depot for supplying!
Herman submarines could be established'
on the American coast.
"Curiously opposed to these many
complaints Is the fact that since the be
ginning of the war Hrltlsh cruisers havs,
been watching American ports nnd have
even approaches the coast oft New York
so closely that they could be seen from
the roofs of tall buildings with tho naked
U-BOAT INQUIRY BY U. S.
Will Ask Berlin About Shots Fired
at the Stephana,
WASHtNnTON, Oct. 14. The United
States Government officially will call
Germany's attention to the attack on
the steamship Stephano hy the U-53. ac
cording to authoritative Information ob
tained at the State Department to-d.iy.
Secretary Lansing will Fend the rum
inunlcntlun as soon ns the Berlin Foreign
Office has hail an opportunity to gel In
touch with Lieut. -dpt. Hans Hose, ront
mamling the submarine. It will be In
the form of an Inquiry as to tho cir
cumstances of the attack with spin-lul
reference to shots understood to h.ie
been tired at the ship before the p'uscn
gers and crew had taken to the boats.
The basis of this actlm Is contained
In the naval reports which Secretary
Daniels had turned over to Secretary
Lansing and which showed that tho
Americans on board, according to affi
MOTOR EXPORTS NEW RECORD.
Total to 7H t'onntrlea In Year
Valnrit at 1 44,,M,Tl l.
WASlltNUlOS. . 1 I. llXpoltjl Of
American automoblliB during the year
ending June So reached tliu lec.ml total
of 1144,620, 71!, exceeding by tOT.TOO,
ijhO the previous: mark, in.idc In 1 1 T .
Kiguiea made public to-day hy tho
Bureau of KoreVrn and Domestic Com
merce show that while export alcs were
made In seventy-fix countries tlicy were
chiefly concentrated In Hnglnml, I'ranco
and Russia.
Large Increases In South America were
noted. India, Australia, Tasmania, New
Zealand and Hrltlsh South Africa n!no
developed Important markets for Ameri
can motor cars.
BELGIAN SENT TO FORTRESS.
Tnrlve Year Srntenee for Opposing;
flemish University I'lan.
Lonpon, Oct. 14. P. Vcrhoegen, the
son of a Deputy of Ohent, has been con
demned to twelvo yearn confinement In
n fortress, says a report published by
the llrloitch Uagblatl of The Hague, and
forwarded by Hcuter's Amsterdam cor
respondent. Verhnegen opposed tho conversion of
Ohent University Into a Flemish univer
sity during tho Herman occupation, the
report adds, and published a pamphlet
ralllie; attention to the danger of derman
measures.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SECTIONS.
AS FOLLOWS:
rre
FIRST ' General Newi. Schooli,
Res' Eitate .... 15
SECOND Sporting. Automobiles,
Kennelt 8
THIRD Newt of Society,
Druns. Muic, Art , . 8
FOURTH Pictoriil Migtrine . , 8
FIFTH Special Feature Ssction . n
SIXTH -kditcriAl.Foreifn.Dookt.
Queriei, FuuncuJ, Prob
lem. Ctr dent, Fuhioni 8
Total
56
Fttitti tr rmttitaltri teho it not tt
ttht all af (AfM txliw uill tonftt a
fact tn"Th Sun" fy notlfylni tht Pui.
c(on Dtpartmtnl at onct by At phont
Q2C0 Btman) and mlulnt Httlow
utU k promptly JorwarJtJ I pouibU.
davits, were under fire from tho Ger
man submarine and the Stephano was
actually hit by a solid shot. The State
Department now has received an affi
davit which Capt. Smith of tho Stephano
made to the Hrltlsh consulate In New
York, together with other statements
from civilians nnd United States naval
officers which give u fairly clear Idea
of what actually happened.
Three Shots In All.
It appears that the U-53 fired tho
first solid shot, according to the evidence,
from a considerable distance and that
the shot either came very close to tho
bow of the vessel or actually struck
It. On this point there Is divergence of
opinion. The shot .was the first Intima
tion passengers or yew had of the
proximity of a hostlw submarine. Al
most Immediately afterward another
shot was heard, followed later by a
third. The two latter shota went wide
of the ship. Hy that time the Stephano
had cuccetded In communicating Its
readiness to surrender and had como to
a stop. The passengers and crew wero
ordered to take to the boats.
Tho U-S3 then left the scene nnd
went off nbaut four miles to nttack the
Dutch ship HlommersdIJk. It returned
later to find that the passcngH and
crow of tho Stephano had taken to the
bolts nnd wero being ssslsted by Lieut
David C. llanrahan of the United States
destroyer Kalch. Several of the sub
marino crew went aboard the Stephano,
opened the water cocks and the ship
sank.
Destroyer Batch Stood Clear.
Th reason for the timely presence of
tho destroyer Hatch on the scene was
that n "3 O S"call had been received from
another hlp In the same vicinity. The
stories about Lieut-Commander Hanra
linn putting his ship between the Ste
phano and the U-53 and protecting the
departure of the American passengers
from tho submarine's fire nre said au
thoritatively to be without foundation.
T'.ie Hatch remained nt some distance
fiom te suphuno until the submarine
went off In pursuance rf Iih attack on
tho HlommersdIJk.
The fact seems established beyond
doubt that three solid shots wero nrcd
at the Stephano nhllo th passengers
were on boatd. This explains why the
passengers and crew stated they had
been forced to abandon their xhlp "under
lire'' from the Herman submarine In
their message tn Secretary- Daniels.
Secretary Lansing Is understood to
be particularly concerned over the re
ports of the three solid shots fired by
the submarine, whether they were warn
ing shuts or were Intended to cripple
the thlp.
Too Far for" Blank Skat.
The fact thsH the tint shot fired was
a solid shot Is not regarded ns conclu
sive proof that It was not Intended for
i warning shot arross the ship' bow,
T). submarine tired from a range of
about two mil'' and In these circum
stances a warning could hardly huvu
!-!! git en a blank shot. Hut tho
reason which prompud tho U-f.3 to
continue tiring Is puzzling to officials.
One theory Is that the Stephano under
way uu utiaotv to n )i quickly en ugh
utnl that this angered the submarlno
commander and prompted him to en
dt.nor to cripple her .it oner. It Is
suggested that he thought she meant to
scupe and was tuklng me.m.s to prevent
It. If this proves true tho case takes
on a rather rertous a)ect.
Hut the fact that the last two shots
Hied wjfnt wide of the mark Indicates to
some officials that they wire also warn
ing shot to bring the ship to a stop
without damaging her. Much depends
on whut were the Intentions of the sub
marine commander lu continuing tiring
after the first shot hit the Mephnno or
came so close to her that tho passengers
Indicted sho was hit. Tills Is what the
United States desires to know.
U. S. FORCE DEEPER IN MEXICO.
.. . urnrs 1'ermi UK Line
tend to .Vamlqiilpa,
tit. I'aso. Tex., oo;. 14. A rtp..rt
reached hire to-night by way o; Mexico
city that lien. Torching had vMetiWed his
lino as for south .is N.unlqulpa, where
the fifth United States Cav.ilty went
Into the. camp that it abandoned when
the punitive expedition wsa drawn north-
. warn.
1 lleports from Parral, Chihuahua, state
' that the ganlson there Is prcpaied to
uslst an attack by Villa's men tn-tiluht,
'Itancheis In contact with the baudl.H
reported tliat such an attack had been
threatened.
A despatch from western Chihuahua
says VilU has divided his force, one
command moving toward Mudera and
the other toward Namlqulpa, which Is
thirty-seven miles south of Ml Vallc, Ucn.
1'ershlng's headquaiters.
MRS. A. PRESTON DIES OF BURNS
Haiti re Society Woman fatally
Injured In lied.
Haltimobl-, Oct. H, Mrs. Alexander
Preston, wife of a well known attorney
and prominent In society here, died to
night In St. Joseph's Hospital. She was
fatally injured yesterday nfteiuoon
vhllo reclining in her boudoir. She
lighted a match and the bed clothing
became United. Before help could reach
her the tiro enveloped her body from the
waist up. Sho also Inhaled the flames
and was unconscious when menibeis of
the household reached her.
Mrs. Preston was a descendant of one
of the oldest Maryland families. Sho
acquired fame by her brilliant thrusts
at the suftrnglsts In recent campaigns
and much of her wit and satire has been
used In tho anti-suffrage literature
throughout muny States.
OAS FAMINE IN J. D.'S TOWN.
Strike In lis) oune' Cuts OR Motor
f svel for Tarrytorrn.
Tarrttown, N. Y Oct. 14, John D.
Rockefeller's town Is facing a gasoleno
(amine because of the strike at H.ijonue.
The lart giillon was delivered to-day
and by Monday, It Is expected, not a
garaKA In Tarrytown, Osslnlng or White
Plains will havti any for sale.
I A tank steamer has been expected
flnce Wednesday. Hecauho John D, Rock
efeller and John D. Archbold llvo here
, Tarrytown liaa been promised tho first
shipment.
Oarages that would usually take 200
gallons on Saturday to-day received only
one-quarter of their supply, Automobile
owners, hearing of the scarcity, liavo
i been ruhlng to the parages, but only
1 regular customers are being supplied and
those In limited quantities.
ALLIES TAKE STEP
TO SAVE ROMANIA
French Officers Will Direct
Cninpni-rii With Russian
Itccnforccmcnts.
DULG.VR TIimiST FAILS
Attempt Is Made to Cross tho
Danube for Invasion, but
Iioats Are Sunk.
London, Oct. 14. Rumania Is to have
help from the Allies to save her from the
fate of Hetglum nnd Serbia. Large Rus
sian rcenforcements arc expected to ar
rive In Rumtitiln and French staff otllccrs
nre to go to Hucharest to direct the new
campaign. Oen. Herthclot. a celebrated
strategist. Is to be In full charge. King
Ferdinand of Rumania will command the
Russo-Rumanlan armies, according to a
wireless despatch from Hucharest.
Without waiting for this nld Humanla
to-day struck back at Von Falkenhayn's
victorious army that Is hammering at
he.1 northern frontier. On her southern
frontier the new menace of a Hulgar In
vasion across the Danube was beaten
b-ck, nnd the same fate met an attack
Von Mackcnsen directed against the Ru
manians In tho Dobrudja. On the west
ern frontier, In northern Transylvania.,
Rumanian resistance li stiffening,
Bnlarar Effort frustrated.
To-day's Rumanian statement docs not
say where the Hulgars attempted the
crossing of tho Danube for an invasion.
They tried to cross In boats, not on a
pontoon bridge, ns the Rumanians
crossed. The boats were sunk, tho state
ment says. The Hulgar attempt Is de
scribed as follows :
There was a cannonade nnd an ex
change of Infantry tire all along tho
Danube. At several places we sank
vessels with llulgarlan troops on lard
which vveic approaching our bank.
To-day's Uulgarlan statement makes
no mention of tho apparently unsuc
cessful attempt at Invnslon of Rumania,
but says Rumanian artillery shelled tho
southern (llulgarlan) bank of tho Dan
ube "at several places without success."
llulgarlan guns caused "excessive con
flagrations" at Kaufat, In western Hu
manla. on the Danube, and silenced Ru
manian guns opposite the llulgarlan for
tress of Lorn or Lnm-Palauka, twenty
live miles southeast of Kulafat.
Island Used for Thrust.
' The Danube forms a loop here, with
Kalafat at the western. Lom-Patanka
at the eastern end. Vldln, a llulgarlan
fortified town.'ls opposite Kalafat, and
between them. In the Danube, Is tho
Island of Malakalafat. Tho Hulgars oc
cupied this Island a forttiixht ago and
the assumption then was th .t they In
tiiiiUd to Use I. as a bse for such a
thrust at Rumania us wj. didlveivd. Y),.
Hulgars nbo held un Island lu the D.u.
uli.t more than fifty n.tt f ttirthi-r cist,
touth of ZlnudtztH. from whieli at. Inva
sion might he ittem:4d.
The most decisive drfo.it In 'he Tr.n
ylvmiln. tight'ng vens admliil'Vr.-d to
Teuton tnxip.s In the region smith of
Pettoscny, In the .tin! valley. Here Mtey
sufTireJ gnat '.Cf and retro.ited lit
disorder, the Rumanian statement says,
when Mount Slgleu. ore or tho frontier
heights, and tho vlllago of Muucnlmaro
were occupied. Tho Herman rtatemetit
oilmlts that the Rumanians were suc
cessful ".it one place."
South of Krnnstndt, In the mountain
ous nrjlon of the four pushes hading to
Rumania, the Ruminlan di fence was
successful overywhele except at one
point, Oulvaln. where they retired ou
Ituc.ir. Von Falkenhayn's troops re-
Ired at Pndeius and two attacks made
by them to force the Prcdcul pass wero
repulsed.
ItnnmnUiis Retake Village.
In northern Transylvania lie Ru
tu n Inns ree.ip'urnl th- viKii..e of p.di-jnn-Surata
(Sosmexu), In the !toj V.i!
..', mi the cMntucc to the iiito. pn
throuK'.i the ( irpathl.it.s. not tln-nst of
Kesdl-Vas.nh'dy. To-d.iyV Herman
statement announces that In northern
Ti.nifjlvauia "th- er.vmy yielded nlso on
the road from V!k Sered.i to Oyline.s
pass," thirty-live miles north of tin
into pass This is not home out by the
Rumanian statement.
Since they entered tho war. a the end
of August, the Rum.uil.ms haw taken
lo3 olilcers and 14.S11 men prisoners,
most of them Austrlaus.
To-day's Rumanian statement says:
On the northern and notthwestcru
fruntn. from the Callman iKvkmvii)
.Mountains as far ;ih tho L'tiji-r Jlul
Valley went of Kagnlere, there wero
minor engagements. We h.ivo cap
tured several pilsoucrs nnd two of
ficers. The village of roliJan-S.ir.ua
(Sosmczo), In tho Olloz Valley, has
been recaptuird by our troops after
laiKulnary street fighting.
In the Huzeo Valley, north of tho
frontier, and at Hrntocca there were
artillery actions. At Prcdeltw the
enemy retired and nt Predeal pass
we repulsed two enemy attacks. At
Hulvala our troops have been obliged
to retire un Rucar.
Mountain Is Stormed.
Hetwccn the height on tho right
snd left of the Alt River there haB
been n lively artillery bomhaidment.
On Mount Chltzlnnet our artillery rlre
dleperhed an enemj convoy In tlio
Jlul region (south of Petroscny) wo
have taken by assault Mount Sioilello
(Mount Slgleu) ami Muncelumnre.
The (iiemy suffered great hwses and
withdrew In disorder. We took nils.
oners and eaptuied one machine gun. 1
The Herman statement says: j
In Tranaylvanla our pursuit of the
enemy on tho east front Is making
good progress. The enemy yielded also '
on the road from Oslk Sreredn to I
Cymns pass. On the frontier passe of
Rurzonlnnd (southwest of Kronstadt) I
the allied (Teutonic) troops gained
ground. The Rumanians lost here 232
men. Including right olilcers, nnd six
machine guns. West of Vulcan pass
(south of Petroscny) hostile attacks
were repulsed by counter ultacks. At
one place the enemy gained a footing
on a line of the ridge,
Army Oroup of Field Marshal von
Mackensen ( Dobrudja) There Is noth
ing to report.
SARRAIL STOPPED.
noth WIiihts nf Allied Forces la
Macedonia nt Htnnilstlll.
l'Aiun, Oct. II. Hen. Sarrall's troops
Continued on Third Page.
KAISER GIVES TROOPS
SLOGANS FOR VICTORY
"Ho Shall Not Get Through"
nnd "Ho Must Dc Beaten,"
His Advice on Field.
HrRt.tw (via London), Oct. 14. Em
peror William told tho troops of Oen. von
Kbcn, on his visit to tho enstern front
Inst week, that their two slogans should
be, "Ho shall not get through" and "He
must be beaten." following Is the Em
peror's speech I
"Not far from your ranks tho battle
Is raging nnd wo hear a cannon shot now
and then. I had the prlvilcgo of receiv
ing deputations from tho troops, which
In hard fighting against great odds won
glory nnd did n great scrvico to tho
fatherland. It Is for mo a duly and an
honor to express tho most profound nnd
most cordial thanks on behalf of tho
fatherland thnt you, along with your
Austro-Hungarlan comrades In arms,
have held your ground so bravely.
"When you ngaln move against tho
enemy tnko with you theso two slogans,
first, 'He shall not get through,' nnd sec
ond, 'He must be beaten.' Wo nro fight
ing for a Just cause. Every ono of you
knows w hy you nro risking your life, but
many of tho enemy know not why they
fight. Numbers do not Impress you anil
I am convinced that you will show your
selves Just as plucky In tho futuro as In
the past.
"Irft tho enemy crush his head ngalnst
a wall of Iron. Cod tielp you In this
gtcat work."
HIST! IRISH NAVY
IS AIDING THE SDFFS
Deep, Dark Secret of IMJont's
Visit Will lie Explained
nt Iluzuar.
That or.o of th errands of th" Her
man submarine r-53 was to help the
cause of votes for women In America
''a the statement made yestTd.iv by
Mrs. K. Rucklcy Wlthrow. 43.". West
1'lfly-tlrst street, a district worker In
tho New York city Woman Suffrage
party.
Mts. Wlthrow, as n daughter of Ire
land for twelvo generations back. Is
liking a prominent part In the Irish
Relief Fund bazaar, which opened last
night at Madison Square Harden, and
she says she will havo proof of her
statement at the bazaar to-morrow tn
th shape of 2,000 copies of tho con
stitution of the Irish republic, the con
stitution drawn up by the Ill-fated men
who went with Roger Casement to their
deaths.
Mr. Wlthrow's Interest In the consti
tution Is due not so much ty her love
for Ireland as to tlo fact that It gives
women equal political rights with men.
"I mean to uo the Instrument for
iiffrni'e propaganda," she mild yester
d.iv. "nnd so I "i nt n r iss ..nd bad
;.0 "0 cop!- s made. They wero prlMed
ill 1 ',(.' n. f eoutse. t'io problem was ,
to get Until lure, fur the Hrlt.so Hov-
er-uo-i ' nil nilnw nothing n go .jilt
wf lici.uii'.. It vn' the L'-e,: that came
to our aid "
"Mow h you know the T-."3 brejght
th n constitutions over'."' Mr. Withrow ,
vas in-kid.
How d" I kn w my li'iid 's .in my,
shoulders"' she ivtrled. "Thit" nin
several thing" I ini at .I'berty to
tell Just now, btlt the 2.1"0 copies
tney nro very small ."ame o i the t'-.l",
and wire at my home in West 1'lfty-,
(lr t stree- t,it Saturday nUot." i
Mrs WJtluow declined t i say where ,
he consignment was taken aboard the,
r-S3. A-keil 'f the raider had v. sited,
the coast of Inland, she -ald :
"Well, that submarine had been to a
:;ood many places," j
STORES FOR ALLIES ABLAZE.
I'lre f)eslro I'oimlikccpsle
I'lnnt, Work Inn tor Diitente.
IMtMtiKKrtvu , N. V l M. -I'iiv
lestr til to-d.iy lb" lnrt: plum nf fie
I'll, e Mrep'.oidin i.'nmptto of this city
will. ,i hiss nf probably 5200,'ii,i alu! fer
a tPtet tueti.uvd th vvnteifr.nl niinii
f. ii tuiinc section. The oil usu uf the Hie
Is not known
Tent cloth lor the
lug vi ateivroofed for
in large 'nmntltlc.
Rntente Allies, be.
Si rvi.'p, v.'a- stored
Much of It was
endy for shlpme'U.
I'lve hundred gill
Ions uf benzine In the f.ictoty fed the
'I. mes an I kept tltetiien .rum approach
ir.g within lighting .IStance while the
blaze was at its height and caused many
.'plcsions.
HOPE TO DODGE PARALYSIS.
Illplomnts Have peeliil Train to
I'nss Arnunil New York.
RnvKr.t.v, Mass., fict. II. Arrange
ments were completed to-day for a
spe.dal train of ten cars tn lenve h;re to-
lliin lun i.it , .iih .-" j
of the North Shorn to ll.V.tlmorc, I'hll.i-
iieipma anil v hmhokioii m.i inu i oiikii-,
lit epsl
Itrnmo inui' u unm, unit 111 iii-i
puralyvls Infection In New York 1
fautll
Among these who havo obtained1
reservations are Count V. Macohi ill (
V Clicrc, me Hunan .uiwrtpii,,,i , miiii ti.
Romulo H. Naon, the Argentine Ambas
sador. U. S. SHIP OFF BLACKLIST.
Mrnmer SHcrnmento Xosv O. K.'il by
llrltlsh Admiralty.
IxiNPOK. Oct. II. The American
steamship Sacramento has been re
moved from the Riitlsh blacklist, accord
ing to tho latest list Issued by the tradn
division of the Admiralty. Neutral
ships on the blacklist rrptesent 183,133
tons of shipping, which llrltlsh shippers
am not allowed to charter without per
mission of tho llrltlsh liovertiment.
The additions to the list are chiefly
from tho Kuropc.iu neutrals, hut an un-
usual feature Is provided by tho In
clusion of several I'ortusueso vessels, No
additional American shlpa havo been
added lo the list.
Unntrernns Murm In South.
A storm which the local Weather Bu
reau officers say Is a "dangetous ono" Is
moving northward In southern waters.
Vessels In the neighborhood of southern
Florida, western Cuba nnd Yucatan
Channel are warned to "exercise every
precaution."
3,000,0110 Order for Allies.
Younostown, Ohio, Oct. 11, The Will
lam Tod Company of this city has re
ceived a rush order from tho Allies for
eight Inch forglngs amounting to $2,000,-000.
ALLIES FLATLY
REFUSE TO STOP
SEIZING MAILS
Franco-British Note Itejects
Every Demand Made
by the U. S.
WILSON CONCESSION
REVEALED IN IT
Entente Takes More Posi
tive Stand Than Before
His Protest.
TO MAKE REPARATION
FOR GRAVE MISTAKES
Neutral Rights Claimed by
President Held Not to
Be Inviolate.
W'AntNCTo.v, Oct, 14. Great Britain
and France In their Joint note, made
public hy the Stnto Department to
day, Jinve firmly but politely declined
to yield on miy point In President
Vv'llson'H vigorous protest ngalnst in
terference with American malls nnd
his demand for it indlc.il chango In
policy nnd the restoration to the
I'nltcd Httttcs of Uh full rlKhtu as a.
neutral Power.
The nutu Is unsatisfactory In every
respect from the State Department's
point of view. Tho Ktitcnte Allies
maintain their previous position more
positively than before tho President's
protest of May 1M vvnii received. The
sharp words of tho President's note
nnd the mw.iltrd warning that the
I'nltcd States could no longer tolerate
the wrongs to which Its citizens wero
being subjecird nre ignored.
The Joint note Is devoted to a refusal
to yldd the prlnclplo and to contesting
every legal argument advanced by the
American note. The only consolation for
the United States Is found In the polite
language and. In. ho slatemvnt that the
Rnti'tiln Allli ate willing to nccept re
spotisb!lry for ''abuses, grave er ors or
Utchctl .is" tomt.iittdl by the a lied au
thorities charged with the Inspection of
tnar.i'.
I)n Not Accept Wilson's View.
In a I road setiso the Knten'. Aliie
asett tbi-ir l.e.iigerctit rights, but re
fi.se to tec ignle as imiolale the neutral
iicht.s of ti e i'nltcd States ns set forth
by Preside'. t Wilson. The main point
in the American contention was that
Hreat Hrllnln had r.o light to fotce
mutr.il h!ps currying Amerlctti malls
Into Rrltisli ports, "tliu aciiulr.r.g by
fone or iii'Jiiatiilablo means an Illegal
Jurld!. tlov"
The Joint note give" only passing rcf
etet.ci! to this n mention but makes It
eVar tin: the pni'tke will continue.
And tho Kntitite AU.'S then proceed to
.itteiTvt tj Justify their Juris llction over
s'l';.- vvhl h vo.nntailly call nt Rritl.'ll
torts nnd nsceit they have the right to
a-cetta'ti that sueli shlp.j carry nothing
..fie.-tlng their nitlon.i! defemc before
art . el. ,r UV - p ip r"
Secrets I y Lansing takes the vlcv.
H'.it these calls are not rciUy voluntary,
but are unlet" dm ess. In his last noU
be - t-il. -I
"They (the allied governments) com
pel i.i in ra I shlpn without Just cause to
inter their own ports or they induce
hhippl'ig lines through some form of
ilureni to semi th-Ir mall Hhlps via llrlt
lsh ports or they de'aln all vessels mere
ly railing at lirltlsh port.", thus acqulr
,ng by force or unjustifiable mentis an
Il'rgal Jurisdiction."
Ily wav of i niphns'zlng this point Sec
rMatv Lansing satd further
"The " lov. ininctit of the Culled
St itert mur again Insist with emphasis
that the KiiMsh and French govo orients
.in no' obtain tlghtful Jnrl-ili i jii of
shlpi by fi-telng or inducing tlum to
v sit tlie'r ports for the purpose of selz
intr their malls."
A iiierlcnii Concession,
Thero Is no ofticlal Intimation to-day
of how Secretary Lansing takes the flat
refusal of thu Ilntentc Allies to yield
this point to the United States. The
Joint note after tak ng up tho cases In
International law referred to by the last
American note rtvenls the fact that the
United States ttcently hcnt a communi
cation to Hreat llrltaln admitting that
shares, bonds, coupons and other valu
able papcrN, money order, checks,
drafts, bills of exchange and other nego
tiable paper, when Included In postal
sh pments, may he considered In the
sntno nature as merchandise and other
property and therefore also may be sub
jocted to the exercise of belligerent rights.
This communication, yielding an Im
portant point to Htcat Rrlta'ti. was not
made public, It was admitted at tho
State Department. The first knowledge
of It came to-day through Its mention
In tho llrltlsh and French Joint note.
The allied Uovernmenti. telterate their
right to luterctpt and search all genuine
mall found ou neutral vessels on the h'gh
seas or lu allied ports. They declare
unjubtllled by facts the Amerlcyin charge
thnt Illegal Jurisdiction lias been gained
by diversion of neutral ships from tho
high seas into the territorial waters of
tho Allies.
The note, transmitted Jointly by ths
Hrltlsh nnd French Hoveiiiinents, was
delivered to tho State IVpirtment by
the embassies Inst Thursday, but was
not made public until to-night by agree,
ment of the Hovernmcnts concerned. It
makef. reply to Sc rotary Lansing's
memorandum of May 24, In which ths
United States declared the Allies had
been guilty of "lawless practices" In
their mall censorship mcthous and that
"only a radical change, restoring to the
United States Its full rights, a.s a neutral
power, will satisfy this Oovi runn'tit."
It Is ni.ilntnlned by tho Allies lu their
lutes: note that they urn "sincerely en
deavoring to avoid any encroachment on
the legitimate exercise of tho rights of
Inoffensive neutral commerce "
Delays and annoyances are unavold.
abls, tt Is pointed out, In uic cxurclta
