I
{
f If /^v WEATHER.
l.OOK FOR THE jj Ia A ^5?C"t ft/W'#sI V%*% # CT? TW4^
I PUKOGRAVUREi! ft I "/lift7 | I II I 1 Aft 1 I I Al I . -S^W^'S^SfS j
![ sKcriox j V^IJv iUvU4 1 'inrr, --1
No. 604?No. 29.472. WASHINGTON, D. C., SUNDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 15, 1916- FIVE CENTS.
" " T~ " ~ ? - - - } _ .7 .~ ? . - _ _ "
FRENCH STORM LINE
OF ENEMY POSITIONS
? Advance on Two-Kilometei
Front East of Belloy-EnSanterre.
* GENERMONT IS CAPTUREt
L.OXDOX, October 14.?In fijarluinj
south of the Somme river in Franc
today the French captured a fiist Ger
man line on a two-kilometer front eas
of Belloy-En-Santerre, and also IF
hamlet of Gencrmont and the suga
refinery near Ablaincourt, accordini
to the official communication issued to
night. Ei?ht hundred Germans wen
made prisoner.
North of the Nomine, French troop;
made progress on the ??falassise ridge
South of the river they also ejecte<
German troops who had recaptured :
portion of Ablaincourt.
Anglo-French attacks on the Somnn
front, in northern France, have been re
pulsed by the troops of Crown Princ<
Rupprecht of Bavaria, according t<
Berlin, which records the capture b:
Saxon regiments of a portion of Amboi
? wood north of Chaulnes, south of the
Somme. More than 600 prisoners wen
taken by the Germans.
The French official statement of tonight
follows:
"South of the Somme we made t\v<
attacks which succeeded brilliantly
" ? - *- *- ?- Bullnv.
vne 01 uit-iu, iu uic toci ?-??- ??<-,
En-Santerre, put us in possession o1
the German first line on a front ol
* more than two kilometers. The othei
placed us in possession of the Hamlet
of Genermont and the sugar relinerj
1.200 meters northeast of Ablai-ncourt
We took a large number of prisoners
Up to the present time 800 unwoundeci
prisoners, including seventeen officers
have been passed back.
"There was an intermittent cannonade
on the remainder of the front."
German Account of Fighting1.
The official statement from Germai
general headquarters regarding opera
tiona on the western front reads:
"On the northern part of the from
the British continued, as on previous
days, lively reconnoitering activity.
"The Soinme battle continues . A repetition
of the hostile attacks north o!
the Somrne on a large front, as on October
12. failed before our curtain ol
fire. Between The Ancre and Morva!
only one strong partial attack neai
Gueudecourt developed completely, bu'
it was defeated. Attacks launchec
from the line of Morval-Bouchavesries
^etulted almost without exception ir
heavy liand-to-hand fighting:, in whict
the . French infantry was everywhere
Mefeated. Th?- troops of Gens, vor
Boelin and von Garnier hold their positions
fully.
Positions Are Betaken.
'Southwest of St. Pierre Vaast wood
. the advantages which were gained by
the French in former attacks were retaken.
Seven officers, 227 men and
several machine grins were brought in.
Fusilier regiment No. 36 and
Infantry Regiment No. 48 of the
division of Maj. Gen. von Dresler und
Scharfenstein fought with especial
distinction.
"South of the Somme the fighting in
Ablaincourt was revived with success
for us. Portions of Saxon regiments
by a bold raid regained the eastern
part of Amboe wood, north of Chaulnes,
capturing six orficers and 400 men.
"In the Meuse district <Verdun region*
there was artillery activity,
increased tftmnorarilv to vio
lence. Kast of the Meuse there were
isolated hand grenade engagements
without importance, and feeble unsucireesful
hostile attacks."
SOCIETY WOMAN DIES
OF BURNS IN BAM
special Dispatch to The Star.
BALTIMORE, October 14. ? Mrs
Alexander Preston, one of Baltimore';
prominent society matrons, who hat
^ gained much fame as a brilliant oppo
ncnt of the suffragists, died tonight it
St. Joseph's Hospital from burns.
While reciii.intr in her b<-d at lie:
home on West Biddlc street she had oc asion
to strike a match, and in an in
i.stant her clothing and the bed cover
in^rr; were ignited. Her screams fo
help brought the servants arid mem
hers of the family, but before the}
could smother the flame, Mrs. Prcstoi
Vas badly burned about the face, heai
and breast. She also inhaled the fire
supposedly while crying for help v.hei
enveloped in flames.
Soon after the accident TPs. I'r<::ioi
as ben t-? Sr. Joseph's Hosr-ital, when
every effort was made to relieve 1 r inter.se
suffering. She seemed to rail;,
after trie treatim-riL, t wubsequentij
iter conditio:: 1 : if ave She j-rrev
: teadi . v.-eake: until -no i>- a
*5:4r. o'clock toniprht.
Was a. Favorite Socially.
iie; death v.i-1 come great shoe*
to her tnany friends and achualntanoes
At tire lime of the accident -he v.a? en
. joy: .1: perfect health Always vivacioui
are et lively temperament, she was
ariiol.. rhc life of the social function*
.v:.- : attended. She only recent!:
i ?-T.srr.- ?i from a summer visit to Maine
i s. I'rv.-ion v. as n- ted and admire*
for he: brilliancy of conversation, he
ready v. i* ami ;> pan*-- Some of th?
moat telling thru ts agaiaat the causi
j: w.nnar: ruff rag- have h? **n penne<
>y b?-. unu u- <i as a: uff rage ma
r e;a ? . i: < * fiipj icf- - thi ?urffIOUt th'
country. Sr . vas ; devotee of outdoo
:< : i ' i - and, though sr.* w;t? .' garde*
> " ?. . - : 'i J r.a-i'-: , ailllUI iCU > Uniiai
k'y ;~r?<i oi.-p* ro v.'Uh it whenever op
portunii;.' ort'ered.
She "a &> ti,>- vvur! ? <" : pro mine lit at
lOi n?-y lief or-. . marriage phe wa
Mi?-* Hanr.ai <lai'her N'?ni , daughte
?>'" L?r. William YVyatt N'orrii
She is :-?urvived b> her husband and
daughter, Mary Ituigely Preston.
RUSS CLAIM SUCCESSES
ON THE RIVER STOKHOt
? i ISXiKAlJ. Ortobfr 14.?At tli
ouree of the River tStokliod, in the rt:
erion of the village of Itairaesto. nea
Semcr:: k, south of Kiselin, ami in ih
region of the woods west of Rubi.o'
. tustftan scouts outraged in ::;;cc**<>fi
-ecor.no iiori rig operation*. : laving ?li:
lodged the enemy outposts Russian
trol:; occupied f ?-ir tranches. Kncrn
rounicr attacks w?;re repelled by ou
lire.
, X:. the region - ? Horn a Walr.-t ;.n a*
tillery duel ti; taking place. Here t.v
TuMtaiev, the gallant commander of on
of the Cossack regiments, was killed.
ir
! RUMANIANS REGAIN i,
i GROUND FROM FOE
r Battle Desperately in Transyl- I
vania to Prevent Teutonic
Invasion.
) | RUSSIANS ARE RUSHING AID !
5 j I.OXDON". October 14.?Standing on
e j their own frontier. the Rumanian ]
- juvvpra v, mi rt-ceiiiiy znvaaea xransyi- i
t vania from the south and east are I
e lighting desperately to prevent the i
r forces of the central powers from en- 1
g tering Rumania. Russian reinforce- i
- merits arc being- rushed to the aid of ?
s | the Rumanians, a wireless report from t
! Bucharest says, and it is announced <
s jthat King Ferdinand will take the field t
I'at the head of his harassed troops.
Fighting on the frontier northeast
of Kronstadt, the Rumanians have re- t
Icaptured a Rumanian village. Polijan- i
_ I Sarata, southeast of Orna. from the $
IAustro-Germans. Bucharest also reports
the capture ol' Mont S'iguiello and
" I the frontier town Muncelunare, in the 1
region of Petroscny. with severe losses
. to the Teutonic forces. The wireless
a dispatch from Bucharest also an~
nounces that a commission of French
- officers is on the way to the Rumanian i
capital to the aid of the hard-pressed c
generals of King Ferdinand. t
More than 3 5.000 prisoners, Bucharest
says, have been taken by the Ruma- r
nians on the various fronts up to the a
' present time.
j. In eastern Transylvania and on the
SnilfViom * T
... wvjuci me Ausiru-uerman
forces continue to make progress v
against, the invaders. East of Csik a
' Szereda the advance had not yet halted, t
and west of the Vulcan pass Rumanian o
attacks have been checked, Berlin re- r
I ports. r
t
Rumanian Official Report.
Following- is the text of the Ru- ^
manian statement: n
"Between the heights on the right r
i and left of the Alt river there has been "
- a lively artillery bombardment. On e
Mount Chitzianet our artillery fire dls- t
t persed an enemy convoy. In the Jiul re- ?t
. gion we have taken by assault Mount v
3 Siguiello (Mount Sigleu) and Muncelu- ?
mare. The enemy sustained great losses
* and withdrew in disorder. We took
' prisoners and captured one machine
gun. v
[ "On the Orsova front there were ar\
tillery duels.
: "Southern front?There was a can- n
j nonadc and an exchange of infantry fire e
1 all along the Danube. At several places ,
5 we sank vessels with Bulgarian troops
1 on board, and which were approaching e
1 our bank. In Dobrudja we easily re- j
i pulsed an enemy attack on our left i n
1 wing. jp
"The total number of prisoners which jj,
we have taken up to the present on all j e
fronts and who have been interned is 103 r,
officers and 14,011 men." rf
Germans Claim Gains. h
Tiie official German statement on opera- ?
tlons against the Rumanians in Transyl- tl
vania and the Russians and Rumanians t<
in Dobrudja says: ^
"In Transylvania our pursuit of the a
[ enemy on the east front is making- good
progress. The enemy yielded also on the
road from Csik Szereda to Gymes pass.
' On the frontier passes of Budzenland the
| allied (Teutonic) troops gained ground, e;
, The Rumanians lost here 292 men, in- P
eluding eight officers, and six machine a
j guns. West of Vulcan pass hostile at'
tacks were repulsed by counter attacks, n
| At one place the enemy gained a foot|
ing on a line of the ridge." ,J
The Teutonic advance in Transylvania
is continuing and the Rumanians have ir
been driven from the upper Alt and Maros V
valleys into the frontier mountains, says J
today's Austrian war office statement, J"!
j Progress is also being made against the
' Rumanian forces in the Kronstadt region,
! it is claimed. if
! b
Serb Attacks Fail, Is Claim. "(
I BERLIN. October 14. by wireless to Say- i*
Iville, S. Y.?"In a bend of the Cerna
river there were renewed Serbian attacks,"
says the German official statement on
{operations' in Macedonia, issued todav.
'* j "which also continued during the night.
RI All, however, failed. Otherwise the situ*
| ation is unchanged."
" j The official statement issued by the ^
* Bulgarian war office in Sofia, under date h
! of October 13, follows: j
i "Struma front?In the vicinity of the f
p village of Tenikeui cur artillery fire put
to rout three armored automobiles. On i v
. i October 11, after a combat near Barakli-J c,
! Juma. we buried more than 200 enemy .
" I dead and made prisoner one officer and j,r
r | twenty British soldiers. Near the village C1
l of Knidye a hostile machine was shot I
V 1 down in an air battle and the pilot cap- j
? 1 tured." * si
3 . n
3USINESS CLUBS ELECT. ti
i,
Convention Sends Thanks to Presi- j n
j x C tt: -*r . IT
ueni lur his .message.
NEW ORLEANS. October 11.?The ''
tiK'lG convention of the Young Men's I
j Rusitu-ss Clubs of America came to a<
j t-lose 'ate today with the selection of
1 Lamn.-, Coi.. as next year's meeting |
c I place, and the election of the following; ^
; officers: President, Howard S. Williams, j e
- ! Jackson. Miss.; first vice president, e
i J Charles K. Dunbar, New Orleans; sec- t
- i ond vice president, C. H. "Wooden, Ra
mar, Col.; third vice president, C. R. I
Bowers, Akron, Ohio: secretary, Law- j
I ! rence O. Sprosty, Cleveland, Ohio; j
?' j treasurer, A. !>. Stitt, Jamestown, N. Y. |
; At a meeting of the new hoard of j
II control, vacancies were filled as fol-1
- lows: Resile \j. Beard. New Orleans;]
e Dee K. Skecl, Cleveland; J. A. .Steel, jr.. j
Yicksburg. This board will decide at j
J j a meeting tomorrow on a date for the
" j iHtxt convention.
j ... . .Q.aix ??d.- ^cui LU rr^hiucni ; ^
i Wilson expressing appreciation of his j
mesMat'- read to the convention at its j r
first session at Jackson. Mies., last . j
1 Tuesday. The telegram to the President i .
rJread: |j
j "The Young Men's Business Clubs of ,
: America, which met in Jackson, Miss.,
and New Orleans, this week, today
j adopted resolutions extending to you
! their sincere thanks for your inspiring!
) message, and to say to you that the
young men of the nation deeply appro- ,
, elate your keen interest in the welfare
' of the young business men." I
c.; . j t
- Bankers Buy United Steel Company.
r CANTON. Ohio. October 14.?The !
** ! United Steel Company here was sold to
v' Hornblower & Weeks. New York bank- C
l*!ers. today for $16,000,000. The buyers *
*~ ; \yi 11 spend 54,000,000 on improvements, j j
y The change, which was approved at a ?
:i*! stockholders' meeting here today, will 1
jrake effect at once, but there will be <
j no immediate change in management.
!. 1 It is the first instance of eastern In- '
teiterests buying into the steel industry j
|!n this section.
t
ALLIES UNYIELDING
IN JOINT MAIL NOTE!
Maintain Right to Divert Ships j
to Own Waters; to Remedy ;
Serious Mistakes.
SEE ENEMY PLOTS ABROAD!
(
In their latest reply to American
protests against Interferences with
* 1 _ i.wt +
leuirai mans, liuiug puum, last, mgitv |
jy the State Department, the allied j
governments reiterate their right to j
ntercept and search all genuine mail I
?ound on neutral vessels on the high j
seas or in allied ports, but they promise i
o remedy "any faults, abuses or seri>us
mistakes" in censorship that may
>e brought to their attention.
They declare unjustified by facts the
Vmerican charge that illegal jurisdicion
has been gained by diversion of
leutral ships from the high seas into
he territorial waters of the allies. The
jext move of the government has not
>een determined.
Time Fixed by Agreement.
The note, transmitted jointly by the
British and French governments, was
lelivered to the State Department by
he embassies last Thursday, but was
lot made public until last night by
.greemerit of the governments conerned.
It makes reply to Secretary
^ansing'3 memorandum of May 114, in
fhioh the United States declared the
.llies had been guilty of "lawless pracices"
in their mail censorship meth.ds
and that "only a radical change.
estoring to the United States its full j
ights as a neutral power, will satisfy '
his government."
It is maintained by the allies in their
atest note that they are "sincerely
ndeavoring to avoid any encroachment
on the legitimate exercise of the
ights of inoffensive neutral commerce."
Delays and annoyances are !
navoidable, it is pointed out. in the j
xeccise of full belligerent rights by j
he allied authorities, and a long list
f precedents is cited to support the j
alidity of the allied censorship methds.
Position as to Hague Convention.
It is suggested that The Hague con
ention quoted in the American raemrandum
is not binding because it has f
ot been ratified by several belliger- |
nt powers, though the allied policy
as been guided by the intentions it
xpresses.
Tri an informal memorandum, subletted
some time ago, Great Britain
otnted out at length the changes made
i censorship methods to expedite mail
xarnination. These changes are only ^
eferred to briefly in the present comlunieation.
The note is nearly 5,000 words in
sngth. It argues that the United States
nd the allies agree that the postal
nion convention does not apply and
lat'postal packages may be examined |
> sec if they contain contrabrand.
hat being so, the note contends tt is
ecessary to open postal bags and exmination
cannot take place at sea '
ithout delay and inconvenience. 1
With Least Possible Delay. s
a
Arrangements now have been made to t
arry on the examination with the least i
ossible delay and to forward innocent r
rticles to their destination. t
Although The Hague convention of r
307 has not been accepted by some of
ie belligerents, the note says the allies g
re prepared to accept the principle c
1 the preamble as to "guarantees due
} peaceful commerce and legitimate t
usiness," but cannot abandon their t
ght to prevent the fraudulent use by ^
ie enemy of neutral mails for belligrent
purposes. The case of the Ata- 1
mta is cited to show information can e
e as useful a means of war as arnmu- I
ition, and the note says informatiori as
> military operations and enemy plots h
i neutral countries, especially the a
nited States, has beep discovered in a
lis way. n
V
Lincoln Proclamation Cited. i;
ii
An examination of precedents is held s
> show that the great powers have
(aimed the right to intercept enemy
correspondence in neutral mails. The aled
argument follows the line of Presi- I
862, which declared things and in- n
orniation as equally contr&brand of h
and cites the fact that inter- h
epted enemy correspondence was used |
i the United-States courts during the 1
ivil war and 'aid before Congress.
Tlie contention of the United States,
ne note argues, that money ol der lints .
hould be classed as genuine mail, and ,
of. as merchandise, does not take into
consideration that such lists pent from ?
ie United States to Germany and Aus- .
ria by mail correspond to money de- .
opited in this country and serve as a j,
otiflcalion to postal authorities of the j
'eutonic powers to pay out the
mounts indicated, increasing the finan- y
ial resistant*- of the all lies' enemies, $
n view of this money order lists are 0
efused passage. ^
Explain Method Adapted. i
In connection with the reminder that
he United States already had agreed that ?,
xamination of private postal correspond- t
nee to ascertain whether it contains con- c'
rabaiul Is permissible, the note says: v
"It is evident that this examination, li
I'hich necessarily entails the opening of
he covers in order to ascertain their con
ents, could not be carried out on board I
vithout involving a great deal of con- a
usion, without causing serious delay to
he mails, passengers and cargo, and
vithout great risk of error, loss or lion- J
lelivery. It was for these reasons that
he allies have initiated the removal of ^
he mail bags and their dispatch to ?
>oints provided with the staff and maerial
requisite for prompt and regular
laudling.
"in all this the allied governments have ?
10 other purpose but that of diminishing,
ry all means in their power, the Incon- *
/ enience that the legitimate exercise of t
heir belligerent rights in regard to enemy f
nail might cause to inoffensive neutral
rorrcspondence and to neutral vessels." *
s
"Differ as to Application."
After asserting that the United States
md the allies are in agreement on
principles, but differ as to their applica,ion.
the note, in reply to Secretary L,an- '
sing's declaration that the allies "compel
leutral ships, without Just cause, to enter
heir own ports, thus acquiring, by force
>r unjustifiable means, an illegal jurisiictlon,"
says:
"The allied governments have never differentiated
between their treatment of
nails on board a neutral vessel on the
ligh seas and those on board a vessel
jompuleorily diverted to an allied port,
rhey have always recognized that visit
a fried out in a port to which a vessel
las been conipulsoriiy diverted must In ^
(Continued on Eighth Page.) t
J
"
I rvvmkmin
i speakers
^\ar<
**o^ '?1||||?B
itWIOts
S\5VT^K^ ^SP?
\ S>tHD ORMOl\ Y^*\'
\ \WWtDNK\t.o< \^??\
\ ^>vyr v\t vv\is\ v?^s* ^
\ SVte.Y, Vyjj^N
V VVWCo ^ <->^<0
\ SW^.WMtVH't ^ \*
I St OTAftR
fc_\ Vv^ -ja5? W
?Y< ^
|??\^
^ -K,
'I
J
X
5AYS TREASURY CLERlT
ST0LEUN5IGNED MONEY
Pwo Detectives Arrest Mark Latham,
Who Goes to Jail in Default
of Bail.
Charged with having purloined ten
iheets of unsigned national bank notes
rom the money vault in the Treasury
>epartment, Mark Latham, 1.11 L"
' "ft nrwr-tViQ/mt 1 hirfv.oiv i"B!i ra nlil
u clerk in the office of the auditor for
lie Post Office Department in the
"reasury Department building-, was arested
yesterday afternoon by Detecives
Pratt and IJelan. Each sheet
epresented $50, a total of $500.
Latham was taken before United
itates Commissioner Isaac R. Hitt. and
ommitted to jail in default of bond in
he sum of $10,000. The police say that
he prisoner admitted having taken
he notes and passed all but two of
hem, and the two that were not passd,
it is stated, were found unsigned in
^atham's home.
.Secret service operators were brought
iere from Philadelphia to assist in
olving the mystery of the disappearnce
of the ten sheets of national bank
otes. It is charged that their disappearance
was traced to Latham, who
u said to have been detailed for work
u the vault in which the sheets were
tored.
Arrested by Two Detectives.
Late yesterday afternoon Detectives
'ratt and Helan of tlie district attorey's
office arrested Latham and took
im to police headquarters, after he
.ad been questioned in the office of the
ecret service division of the Treasury
>epartinent.
Assistant United States Attorney
rharles V. Artli appeared for the govrnmor.t
when the case was called to
he attention of the United States commissioner.
Latham v,;.r not represented
y counsel and at the suggestion of
he prosecuting officer he entered a
IK.i. OI HOt gUUl}. Ill'" II?3U! IIIK vVii.?
ostponcd until Tuesday morning- at
0:30 o'clock.
Mr. Artli told <commissioner Hitt that
ihile the amount involved war? onlj"
50rt. the offense it J1 "^r^l was a serious
ne and the bond. he suggested, should
>e fixed at $10,00y. The bond was fixed
t that amount, and hut ham. unable
o give the bond, was tak'-n to jail by
he detectives.
A number of the notes. bearing forged,
ignatures, it is stated, have been reurned
to the Treasury Department. I
hletty by hanking Institutions, for re- (
[eruption. One of them reached there;
'esterday shortly before tho closing j
lour.
Latham, it is stated, is from North j
'arolina, and h.ts been in government
employ during the last twelve years, i
le has a wife arid one child residing
,t tho IT street address.
DEMOCRATS HUNT CANDIDATE.
Seek Man Willing to Oppose Senator
Henry Cabot Lodge.
BOSTON, October 14.?John F. Fitzgerald,
democratic candidate for the i
Jr.ited States Senate, today announced
hat he was ready to withdraw "If it
s to the advantage of President Wilson
and the democratic ticket." In a
itatement the former mayor said he
lad "agreed to take the nomination as i
rustee for the party when former Gov. !
David I. Walsh and Sherman L. Whiptie
refused to run. rather than have
Senator Henry Cabot Lodge unopposed,
fhe democratic party has until next
fhursday to provide a candidate in Mr.
Fitzgerald's place, the latter said,
jemoeratlo leaders already were canr^issliig
the fieid when the .statement
vas made. Former Gov. William L.
Douglas of Brockton had been aptroached.
and it is understood declined
entatively.
Richard Olney, who v. as Secretary of j
state under President Cleveland; Dr. S
.harles W. Eliot, president emeritus
>f Harvard University, and Matthew
lale, chairman of the progressive party
n this state, who is supporting Fresilent
Wilson, were mentioned as possibilities.
*
/
r-]
O EIGHT-HOUR DAY FOR HI
WILL DODGENEWYORK
ON RETURN TO CAPITAL
Summer Residents. Fearing' Epidemic,
to Come From New England Today
on Special Train.
Special Dispatch to The Star.
BOSTON", Mass.. October 14.?Arrangements
have been completed for a
special train of ten cars to leave Beverly
Farms at 2:30 O'clock Sunday afternoon,
bound for Washington by tvay
of the Boston and Maine and the New
Haven railroads, to take about ll'.j summer
residents to their homes without
the necessity of passing: through New
York city.
The idea of the special train was
brought about by the epidemic of inj
fahtile paralysis, and it was deemed
desirable to go over the route followed
' by the federal express, thus avoiding
J the worst infested district.
Joseph L.eiter of Washington and ChiI
cago was the first to move for special
j accommodations in returning home. He
! suggested to a friend one day several
} weeks ago that they join with the
j Italian and Argentine ambassadors in
| securing four special cars to take them,
j Others entered into the plan and the
! party will have nine ears and a diner,
j The train will pull out of Boston at
about 5:40 o'clock and stop at North
j Philadelphia, then at West Philadelphia,
! at Baltimore, and will arrive at Washington
at 'J:35 o'clock.
Members of Party.
I The names of those who have ob- I
j tained accommodations are: Mrs. L.ei-|
ter, children and household: Mrs. J. K. \
I Williams, Mrs. Inciter's mother; the |
| Italian* ambassador, Count V. ilacohi Dr-j
j Cellerc; countess Di Cellere, their j
' children and household, a total of
| twenty-three persons; the Argentine
ambassador, I?r. Romulo S. N'aon; his
I -a ire, their children and household, a
j total of twenty-two person:;; Mrs. Pros'
ton (Jibson and family, it. S. Reynold.:
j Hits and family, Charles M. Sto*y. Mrs.
! ilenry Rousseau and children, Mrs. X'aj
than Hay ward ami family, Mrs. X". S. i
Mackie and family, Mr. and Mrs. Whar- .
I ton Sinkier and family. F. M. Boynton, J
[ Miss VV'illett, daughter of deorgc F.
! Willett of Cool idee:: }N>int, who is goJ
ing to Bryn Mavr; Mrs. Howard off
i New Orleans and her daughter, Rich-j
| ar-l Dana Skinner and family, Mrs. i
IHeorge (J. Carey and daughter, Mrs.!
I I?. II. Thomas, sr.; Miss Adit, daughter!
of Andrew Ad.e; Louis A. Coolidge, Miss I
I >I! I M r> M(iwnnls. Mrs. .Tusx-nh w?n.-/*??l
| and daughter, an?l Addison I,. Green 01
Holyoke, who is to go south.
CHURCHES OF CHRIST ELECT.
j ___
Choose Convention Head: Vote for;
i Kansas City as Meeting Place.
i I>ES MOINES, Iowa, October 14.?By j
I unanimous vote Kansas City today was j
I chosen as the meeting; place of the 1017 j
national convention of the Churches
J of Christ. 'J'he date for the meeting
j will be decided on later.
Judge J. N. Haymaker of Wichita,
I Kan., was elected president of the gen!
eral convention, the ruling church
; body. The 191 'i convention in session
here will close tomorrow.
GERARD TO GO ON STUMP.
Ambassador to Germany to Tour
Kansas Next Week.
CHICAGO, October 14.?Word was
received at western republican national
headquarters today that James \y.
Gerard, United States ambassador to
Germany, will make a number of campaign
speeches for President Wilson in
iv<t11tjtio itcAi v. *?c*v hi vumpuny With
William J. Bryan.
It was announced that Charles \v
Fairbanks, republican nominee for Vice
President, will speak at Fostorin, Ohio
October 17; Warren, Ohio. October is' ,
land Y'oungstown, Ohio, October 1^.
I Raymond Robins will speak f0r !
1 Hughes and Fairbanks at Detroit. ,
Mich., October 19.
4
I
?
M. J
! HELLIG OLAV'S CAPTAIN 1
; REPORTS NO SUBMARINE
! I
Fails to Mention Craft, Said co Be j
Chasing Him, When Giving
Position 653 Miles Out.
NEW YORK, October 14.?A wireless |
message received here this afternoon j
from Capt. Hoist of the Scandinavian- !
American line steamship Hellig Olav |
giving his position at noon today made j
no mention of sighting or of being fol- !
lowed by a submarine.
The message came to agents of the
| line here and read:
; "Hellig Olav 653 miles off Ambrose }
: lightship at noon Saturday, October i
! 11."
) A wireless message sent to Capt. j
! Hoist this morning advising him of
! the report brought by the White Star'
I liner Bovio had evidently not been re- i
! ceived by him when he gave his posi- ;
i tion, but officials of the line thought j
! that if he had seen a submarine he '
(would have mentioned it.
I ? !
The tmtisn steamer stephano, sunk f
by the German submarine U-5M off the '
Nev England coast last Sunday, was i
fired on without warning, her com- I
mander. Capt. Smith, reported in an |
affidavit received yesterday by the j
State Department. Capt- Smith declared
three solid shots were used,
the first of which hit the Stephano's
bow. No evidence corroborating his
statement has been received by the department.
No particular interest attaches among
officials to the fact that solid shot were
j used, and it was pointed out that their
use would be necessary if a warning ves\
sel happened to be several miles distant,
j Instances have been reported previously
I where vessels have been hit in-^ihis way
without causing serious diplomatic results.
It is possible that on the basis of evidence
in band the United States may address
ait inquiry to Germany as to what 1
fuctx i> lias in riie matter. This nrohnhlv 1
will not bo dor.*' before the U-boat has
had time to return. t
SAVED FROM BLAZING CAR I
I
i
Man Taken Out Alive. Bodies of 11
Companions Rescued. After Train
C
Crushes Auto. t
T
C
( (jLl AlBrS, Ohio, October 14.?K. E. ^
Edwards, twenty-six, a farmer of Sum- c
merford, was rescued alive, and the
burning bodies of illss Clara Edwards,
iiis sister, and Robert -Steel of Lafayette
were saved from cremation by fire- ^
men tonight after a .Yew York Central
passenger train had struck the ma- 0
chine in which tlie three were driving j t
to this city to join a theater party, and j 1:
the gasoline tank exploded. The acci- j
dent occurred at what is known as.
Death i rossmg. wnere more man
thirty people have been killed.
Miss lid wards and Steel were killed
instantly and their bodies held in the Jl
burning debris of the ear. Kiwards
received severe injuries, but it is be- n
lieved he will recover.
The train ran a half mile past the | s
crossing before it could be stopped, but i *
lireinen at a suburban station nearby 11
saw the accident and went to the c
scene in time to drag the dead and
the injured man from the wreckage.
Tt is supposed Edw^r^s failed to hear
or see tiie approaching train. '
Earl Holt, who says Dot. oft is his *
home, was riding the "blind baggage" e
of the train and saw the accident. He ?
is neid in city prison as a witness P
peiiuing the coroner's investigation. i
I O
Mexican Gunboat in Distress. j < <
The Mexican gunboat Guerrero has!
been reported in distress near Tres Ma - i
rias Island, off the coast of the territory
of Tepic. the cruiser Raleigh reported ! Jj,
yesterday to the Navy Department. The | t<
cruiser Buffalo lu^ sailed to her assist- j ti
ance, the dispatch added, but does not in- | lc
dlcate from what port on the west coast a
of Mexico the Buffalo had started. She > w
was last reported at. Manzanillo. I T
i
t
OENIES VOTE FOR HINI
WOULD INDORSE WAR
Mr. Hughes Resents Declara- I
tion That Republican Success
Will Endanger Peace.
TARIFF TALK IN NEBRASKA I
I
"LINCOLN, Neb., October 14.?Charles
Evans Hughes today characterized as '
"preposterous the declaration that a
vote for him meant a vote for war.
"I am a man of peace." >Ir. Hughes
said In a Nebraska speech. "Who
wants war? I don't want war.''
Correct policies, Mr. Hughes said,
would keep America out of war.
"That sort of thing we have been
having will not keep us out of war,"
he said. "It will embroil us in difficulty."
In the six addresses which marked
the opening day of his presidential
campaign in Nebraska the republican
nominee discussed nearly all the issues
of the campaign. He characterized as
"temporary and abnormal" the present
prosperity of the country and urged
support of the republican party so that
fortify American enterprise In postfortify
American enterprise in post
helium days against unequal competition.
"The country is living," he said, on
"the stimulant" of the European war
and would not long have the stimulant.
!
Attacks Underwood Law.
"You might as well talk to a drunken j
man of the bliss of Intoxication," Mr. j
Hughes said. "Our opponents, instead
of making political capital out of the |
present prosperity, which came up 1
through the European war, ought to be j
thinking of what they did to the coun- i
try with their policy, put in force!'
through the Underwood bill. There! j
may be those who enjoy the contem- ii
plation of that sort of thing, but they v
will have a very rude awakening." i
The nominee assailed the Adamson 1
bill as "a gold brick" handed t.o labor. *
This declaration was made before an I
audience of railroad employes who '
crowded around his car at Wymore, an
unscheduled stop, where the train
changed engines.
At Falls City, Beatrice. Fairbury,
Fairmount, York and here tonight Mr. 5
Hughes addressed audiences which fre- .
quently interrupted him to applaud. In .
bis speech here the nominee went into '
detail on his views with respect to the 1
international considerations of peace i
and the organization of peace. As at (
Fairbury, he replied to the charge that
a vote for him meant a vote for war. i
"I have heard it said since I came
into Nebraska," Mr. Hughes said, "that j
somebody lias been going through the |
state saving that a vote for mc meant <
a vote for war.
Proposition Preposterous, He Says.
"Did you ever hear a more preposterous
proposition to presetat to men? I
am a man of peace. I have been spending
my life In maintaining the institu- 1
tions of peace. I desire in that 'way to ]
promote international peace. Who can <
think without horror of the ravages of
war? Who can desire war? I do not
u^ouc x uu not aeaire petty wars, j
I do not desire war in Mexico to satis- j
fv a personal vindictiveness against a!
disliked ruler. 1 don't like that kind !
of war.
"J believe in correct policies. They will
keep us out of war. The sort of thing
we have been having wi.l not keep us out
of war. It will embroil us in dlifkuity.
It did embroil us in difficulty in Mexi-o.
"We wish well to all peope; we des.re
to have prosperity throughout the world,
but we have a particular care here. U11- [
less we take care of our own, we shall
never serve humanity. Unless we de- |
velop the great opportunities of the f
United States we will serve no one whatever.
I am for America lirst, and Amer
ica efficient. j
Cheerful Thought for Blind Man. i
I <
"Our friends on the other side seem to |
think that everybody who disagrees with i
them wants war. Well, that would be a j
very cheerful way for a blind man to a
consider the situation.
"Our friends on the other side certainly '
have not got a monopoly on peace. Let i
us look a little at the record. They tell | s
us they are so strongly for the preserva- j I
tion of peace that If any one criticises I n
what they have done he must -be a inili- j y
tarist. ! t]
"I maintain that, the most important : tl
Lhing for the purpose of safeguarding j A
the peace of the land is correct policies, h
That is important in this hemisphere;
'.hat is particularly important in Latin
\;n erica; that was very important in
Mexico. - Instead of having a poiicy of
jeace. based upon a correct attitude with ii
-eggrd to that unfortunate country, this
present administration entered into a
)olicy of officious intermeddling with t(
natters which did not concern it and em- e
roiled this country in actual war. That
s the real fa<'t of the case."
Mr. Hughes reviewed the adminislra- 1
ion's policy with respect to Huerta. j t<
"I stand here to say, and 1 chaliemre : ir
ontradiction. that the threat to make l>
var upon that individual, and to use
whatever force was adequate to put h;m ] it
)Ut of the government., which, whether ! h
ve recognize it or not. others had reo- d<
gnlzed, was utterly indefensible in law tl
ir in morals," Mr. Hughes declared. ir
tl
Again Talks Tariff. p.
Reverting to the tariff, Mr. Hughes a:
aid:
"We must equip ourselves to take care ^
f our own vital interests. We can't do p,
hat unless we faithfully apply, as wise- T
y and intelligently as we know how, the y!
octrine of protection to American enterrise
and interests. We have had some
uggestion on the other side of an ap
reciation of this situation.
"Tliey have not been very definite
bout it; they have not told us exacty
what they stand for. If they do 1
ot stand for a tariff for revenue only, tin
hey do not stand for anything at all, pt
o far as I know in connection with s
he tariff. If they are not for that
irinciple, so far as the tariff is con- to
erned, they are without principle, be- re
ause they certainly have not declared
heir faith in any other principle. of
"They have, however, told us that th
hey will give us a .tariff commission, wl
sincerely believe that we should have te
very possible aid to an understanding bm
f the facts affecting these serious ne
roblems. I do not believe in going in
lind. I have not come to this place a
f candidacy, leaving the career of
hich I spoke, for the purpose of par* ha
sling out special privileges at the ex- tli
ense of the public welfare to any Je
lass or to any group. tic
"I want t.o see this very difficult and l>o
nportiiut uiaticr rtuciiueu to W1U1 tne Kil
tinost care and fairness. It can be be
one if we get the facts that apply pa
> each situation, and I believe in a ar
iriff commission, but it is perfectly esi
lie for anybody to talk to the Ameri- vo
in public as if a tariff commission m<
ere a solution of tariff difficulties, no
ariff commissions don't legislate." vrl
ii
... " .3
NO CART IN RIVALRY
OF NATIONS, HE SAYS
1J. S. Ready to Fight for Things
American, Mr. Wilson Tells
Pennsylvanians.
ncDi nocc dcdiidi ir>**i ?pt
Vft-I UVI1UO IlLrUDLIUHIV H\j I
LON'ti DRANTOH. X. J.. October i4.? *
Cn a speech before a large delegation
>f Pennsylvania democrats who came
lore with bands playing and banners
lying. President Wilson declared today
:liat while he is for peace. "America is
ilwaj's ready to light for things that
ire American." He summed up his idea
>f the issues of the present campaign
;n these words:
"America knows that it is faced with
:his choice: 'Peace, the continuance of
:he development of business along the
Jnes which it has now established and
ieveloped. and the maintenance of well
fnovn progressive lines of action, on
:he one hand; or. on the other, a disturbance
of policy all along the line,
tew conditions, new adjustments, un
ieiined alterations of policy, and back
>f it all invisible government."
The President discussed vhat he <7c
:1a red was the attitude toward war and
peace of different elements of the republican
party.
"Fundamental Uneasiness."
'T understand from th* leaders of
the republican party that nothing has
seen done right," he said. 'The}' do not:
say that the thing done was always
wrong, but the way in which it was
ione was always -wrong. They do not
venture to say, that is. the privato
counsel does not venture t.o say. that
we wanted anything but peace, but
they would have preferred some other
way, not disclosed, of obtaining peace.
The vocal part says 'we wanted war '
The silent part intimates that we wantad
peace, but wanted another kind of
peace. They can never get over that
fundamental uneasiness, gentlemen, that
America is in charge of somebody else
than themselves. But America knows
that the things thai were done did
obtain peace, and it does not know that
the things that might have been done
would have obtained peace.'"
Attitude of Foreign Nations.
Air. Wilson reiterated previous declarations
that it is almost impossible to do
anything in the lleld of foreign affairs
because foreign nations "have been led
to believe that a dominant element in
'? iu (n f-ivnr ftf
LJie repuuiiMii pa> ... .v. __
Irawing the United States Into the
L-.uropeau war, and they have been told,
with abundant evidence, that it is
probable that if the republicans succeed.
we shall enter upon a policy Of
exploitation of our neighbors in Mexico."
Continuing bis discussion of the foreign
affairs of the nation. Mr. Wilson
declared that although the leaders of
the republican party demand that the
rights of Americans be protected everywhere,
on one occasion the "republican
machine? "Vfas able to compel a majority
01 Itfit members fn the House of Representatives
to vote that American clf.isens
had no right to travel on the high
?eas." He added:
Calls Incident Regrettable.
*'If their leaders believe in the rights
>f American citizens, why don't thetr
followers? If their leaders are so stiff
:o see that Americans get their rights
jverywherc. why do these men vote
that Americans shall get their rights
nowhere? One of the most regret able
ncidents of American history is thau
* - A^,,rw3 5,,
cxi ere snouiu n<t*? iuu....
:he Congress of the United States wiling
to vote in that sense."
Mr. Wilson reiterated his advocacy of
i league of nations to preserve the
>eace of the world and attacked the
leaders of the progressive party, who.
le said, had betrayed the rank and file,
-le also declared that the selection of
t Congress is just as important as the
election of a President, because "the
eul source of action and the real machinery
of obstruction is in Congress."
' Forces of Reaction Control."*
He asserted that the forces of i?.
Lction arc in control of the republicans
n Congress.
Vance C. McCorinick, chairman of the
lemocratic national committee, presided
at the meeting, an.! A. Mitchell
'aimer, democratic national committeeman
from Pennsylvania, introduced Mr.
Vilson. The delegation, wliich came
ere on eight special trains, constituted
he largest auuicnre wmcn nrs nearu
he President speak at Shadow I*avvn
fter the speech the President shook
ands with everybody present.
President's Speech.
President Wilson in his speech said,
1 part:
"I need not tell you that I ar.i glad
> see you. but let me say that T c.jii
specially glad to see you because
here are some things which perhaps
ennsylvanians arc more oual.iied to
2stif;? as to the subtle and intricate
leans by which the purposes of the
eople arc sometimes defeated by their
overmnent. because I know how true
is that the people of Pennsylvania
ave again and again attempted to
emonstate to the rest or' the Union
t;tl they believed that we had coin?
itoanew age; that they believed that
lis new age required new elements of
oliey; that they desired men to lead
lem who would lead them to too light
mi not again drag them into the subtrranean
passages of private influence,
nd. therefore. I think it will be
Lrior to expound this campaign to
ennsylvanians than to anybody else,
here are a great many things that
?u will understand without my putng"
them into words.
"Same Thing in New Jersey."
"And the same thing is happening in
ew Jersey. Six years ago I had the
stinguished pleasure of exhibiting
ie government of New Jersey to the
;ople of New Jorsey, in its true colore
, it lived. I only wisli I had time
exhibit it now that it has resureted
Itself.
"I was privileged to lead the people
New Jersey In the direction In which
ey had long wanted to go, and in
hich these gentlemen had long prended
they were willing to lead tliem.
it in a direction in which thev had
:ver been permitted to advance an
ch. Doesn't that sound to you like
familiar story?
"And exactly the same thing that in
ppening in Pennsylvania?the same,
ing that they are attempting in Kew
rsey?is being attempted in the ua>n
at large. I wonder if they supse
that anybody is deceived? Tou
low that the elements that are nowhind
the candidates of the opposition
rty are exceedingly varied, but they
e easy of analysis. The most interting
element is that which is most
cal. The representatives of that ele?nt
are confidently telling us, though
ne of them Is a candidate for office^
lat the party will do if it is given
t
