d&nking and &smusion. I
Ihs HhIdy' sor nwsfo One Cent
NO. 3649. WIATU-F4AIR; WARNM WASHINGTON. D. C. SUND)AY, OCTOBER 15, 1916 ONE C ENT
"MAN OF PEACE"
SHOUTS HUGHES
Candidate Denies Vigorously
He Favors Entering War.
(y the Intermattemal News service.)
Lincoln. Nebr., Oct. 14.-From dawn un
til far into the night Charles E. Hughes
stumped the broad prairies of Nebraska,
telling the farmers he was "a man of
peace" and denouncing the administra
tion for "having gotten us into several
petty, indefensible, inexcusable wars."
He declared only careful application of
the Republican protective tariff doctrine
could save American business from
ruinous depression after the war. He told
other men at the junction point, at Wy
more, that they were handed a "gold
brick" in the eight-hour law. He kept
pounding home the cases of ineffciency
and extravagance of the administration.
Ife talked his greatest applause when
h. tak-d of peace.
\ :- Prcsident Marshall has just pre
ceded Mr. Hughes through the State, de
clarirg that election of a Republican
administration this fall meant war. The
governor took occasion to a:swer the
harge of his speech at Fairbury.
"I have heard it said smeve I e'mI. in to
Nebraska that some one has been ;.oing
i ough the State saying that a vote for
us meant a vote for war.' t, said. --lid
yo eVe. hear a inorc prpsterous propo
aition to present to men? I am a man of
peace. I have been spenlding my life in
tmair1taining the institutions of p..eace. I
desIr it my w ay to promote international
ia, I. ;nn think without horior of
>Vl Vtty n . T t d (not ,d.
1:1 w1 In Mcx:co to any a peisonal
SnaLIVen. ., au:a . uiciiked ruler.
i I rZ.1t kod ot nar "
m. the dministrations
Do not talh t to e of a policy of peace
.k. tIIaL. Tii-t
is wS r .ita 8. m S i 3. I bieic.
mt , i I maintaint with hon
. ]bh eae that is maintair.
w01 th e -n -pe ct. I beile e in Peace iI
a w , isd her' c e uaire the friendhip
!. ani a l , s th . friendship of thiz
nation. a I-a e we h1-h recognizes and
lamrntins the di-: y of Arerican cit
Ti t-he right iourve of prosperity
ab:it. i .- , cr-at mistake to de
rt iot it '0 hav' had no situation
uobih r on ile snd eitreful ,unduct
d not -asil, keep us out of war. Wo
1 in M, xi, o a situatin where we
4-t intoa ;t war and as I have
I i n o b l , w a r "
ALLEIEo PIUM QUEEN
KEEPS IDENTITY SECRET
Once Beautiful 'White Girl Arrested
with Chinese Defiant.
- --u igtie ti'Hrald
aL. t 14 *-rae
I .1%i. r i, rl a girl of remark
- . utnow a pitiful human
t-u tum. is to be swnt to
it to prison, it was
-e (akiand pliXe. Mis.,
reste-d in a raId on an
o'u d1en at N-. 1-9 Webster street,
- It sh was in company with Lung
on.a 'no, womit Foid-ral authoritie
h.en ,onne-ted with a
I.-* z involved in opium smug
T .-- i ir hilitt-d to the police that
Irene 0-bsot, known to trafflek
in -hum as "The Queen of the High
* nr ' Her ife amid the evil cus
tems ,f the notorious highbinder gang
b .u h en vi'sumptior, and so hastened
t . :a-io that disease that she is
ow in I-. las, etgs.
t-ntIenl Gihson anel
-a ore I- Fed
eraI authri ls in an vplum rail. sihe
. I :,are It if you call me Irene
tibton or G race Te Ma:r. Those are
a-unid names. No one will ever know
i, ".a1 name."
The );tand polie have learned the
girl's fa znil: is pronirent in Sacra
rnstnt..
PARALYSIS RECORD UP.
Thirteen New Cases and Four
Deaths Reported.
New York. Oct. 14.-Thirteen new cases
of infantile paralysis, an increase of ten
over yesterd.as fligures, were reported to
isy Four deaths were reported.
Eight of today's cases %ere in Manhat
tali, one in the Bronx. two in Brooklyn
and four In Queens. Three of the four
deaths were in Manhattan and the other
In Brooklyn.
For the entire week, however. there has
been a decided falling off In the progress
of the disease. Last week there were M)
,ases in the entire city, ard this week
only 70. The 'A deaths this week from
polIomyelitis Were 14 less than those re
ported in the 7 days ended October 7.
JAPANESE SHIP ASHORE.
,ar tle. (Ot. li.-The Panama Maru of
th1e Osaka Shoshen Kaisha Line, bound
for Seattle from Japan. is ashore on
Tlhonipson's Split, a mile and a half from
thA Diamond Point quarantine station.
The vessel grounded in a heavy fog. At
high tIde tugs expect to pull the Panama
free of the sand.
AGAIN!
FREE TICKETS
FOR YOU
At Moore's Garden and Strand
theaters this week. They are
offered you in the classified col
umns of today's Herald on page
I5. Of course this is an unusual
opportunity, but every day there
arc scores of opportunities offer
ed in the same columns. No
miatter what you want, be it a
job, a clerk, a bookkeeper, a maid,
a cook, an apartment, a house.
money to borrow, or any one o
scores of needs yu can fill it by
consulting The Herald's classified
columns or inserting a want ad
in them.
18EXK RAI CARS
Beat New York Ceudmeters ead We
teame==..e in Paasle.
New York. Oct. 1.-Polowinig with.
drawal of polieemen frot the surfae
cars, a group of strikers and symthlpaflinkm
attacked two One Hundred and Sixty'
eighth street cross-town car at Third
avenue late this afternoon, mashed the
windows with stones, beat the conductors
and motormen. drove the passengers in
panic to the streets, and cut the trolley
wires. Four men were arrested.
U. S. CLERK HELD
Treasury Employe Charged
with Stealing Bank Notes.
I Mark Laetham. 36 years old, a clerk in
the Treasury Department, yesterday was
released on $10,000 bond, following his ar
raignment before United States Commis
stoner Isaac R. litt on the charge of vio
lating Section 47 of the United States
Penal Code, prohib:ting the purloining of
Vnited States property.
The charges were made by W. 11.
Moran. assistant chief of the Secret Serv
Ce. Two S2 notes found at his home at
'hr time of his arrest were all that re
nirned of Sa worth of unsigned bank
r is eairl to haver beren appropriated by
L:, th .
L,, tham,, wior lics with his family at
11 1 etre't rorthwmet. pleaded not guilty
Sfore C',mmreissiier Hitt. and his hear
in was tnstaied until Tuesday to en
him to obtami ernsel Assistar t
'It let Attorrne'y hrt W. Art, is
;rsecuting the case, ant it was learned
l'st nright that the charge, iay be broad
I n-11 1. include the full scope of the at
n:lged to have been committed.
lEidence was produced by Mor.,n tend
ing to show that Laetham, an employe of
tii .i;dlinrk Office in the depitmnent,
wirle detriled on srecial work is a -lerk,
t-' 1e% sheets *f unstrk-d bank nots.,
ich Iheet containing one S30 and three S10
not r , i aftr- n..: rttirtiou namires
t lwir oimr. :,t lh,- hrnks on which
bry werc drawu. tisposird of the notes
fm hi, own benefit.
T, warrant. Issurl by tire District at
:torney. v:-.s"rri he Detective Sergts,
I'&lanr nt Pratt. f the Central office,
hio art-st-d I-actharn at the Treasury
D-pa t iwent
F'ederal officials beli,-ve the notes were
irawn on the Shetfield National Bank.
but they are not c-rtain of the name or
location of the baik. The names used in
forging the notes were not disclosed. It
In believed that the officers will press the
prosecution of raetham. It is the first
case ink years where such a bold attempt
has been made to remove money or notes
from the Treasury.
CLUB HOUSE PLANNED
BY CAVALRY SQUADRON
Structure to Cost $10.000 Will Be
Erected by "President's Own."
A club house, to cort Sif.te. is beinz
panneri for th, First avalry Squadron
of the District National Guard. Everv
recruiit signs over his government pay to
the treasury of the squadron. The money
thus realtzrd will be used for the ex
penises o' the outfit and to furnish a
sinkinr fund for the construction of the
clubhouse.
The announcement of the building of
tire lubhouse is expected to add further
inrretus to the recruiting, which already
has been phenomenal in number and qual
ity of members secured. Club features
and social activities are attractions which
few can resist.
Troop A of the squadron now is on
the border: Troop B has already signed
s'venty-one of the eighty-eight men re
quired after only four days of recruit
ic: Troop C will begin orgapization
this week, and Troop D composed of
local young men without college or
business affiliation. will be formed when
the other troops are completely recruited.
The entire squadron will be part of the
District National Guard and will serve
as an escort for the President on State
occasions. It has already been dubbed
"The President's Own."
C'apt. E. M. Nevils, of Troop B, says
that every man will be expected to drill
at least seventy-two hours every year.
Enlistments are for a period of three
years with three years in the reserve.
Service uniforms will be furnished by
the government.
The troops wil leach be provided with
horses.
Arrangements are being made now for
winter quarters for troops A and B.
Congress is expected to provide an
armory for the squadron as soon as re
cruiting Is completed.
A SUGGESTION FOR NEUTRAIS.
Might Use Interned German ships to
Replace Those Torpedoed.
London, Oct. 14.-Neutral nations are
offered the suggestion that they use Ger
man ships interned in their porte to com
pensate them for submarine losses by
the shilppirg correspondent of the Times.
Discussing the world shortage in ton
nage, the correspondent says:
"There are ninety German ships in
Chilian harbors. Chile, like all neutrals,
is suf~ering from lack of tonnage. There
fore, in the view of British ship-owners,
Chile, if she will not use these ships to
export her products to Europe, should be
asked to lease themtr to a power which can
employ them and who will indemnify her
for any lose in port and harbor charges."
ZIGEHT TOWNS BOXEEn.
Allied Air Raiders Kill 14tne rer
eons, lays Report.
Berlin (via Sayville. wireless), Oct. 14
Bombs were dropped on eight towns in
-the alles' air raid Over southern Ger
many on Thursday. Between forty and
fifty allied machines took part. Nine
persons were killed and twent-six
wounded. Of the nine raiding machines
shot down eight were French and one
British.
The foregoing information was con
tained in an offleial report Issued today.
Slap at U. S. in Panama Fails.
Panama, Oct. 14-Gonsales. Septoe In
troduced in the assembly a bill Drovid
ing for the annulment of the constjtu
tional provisions under which the United
States may intervene to presarve ordet"
In Panama. The bill was reJseted,
FRENCH ATTACKS
S ON SOMME
Hamlet of Guermont Falls Be
fore Fierce Offensive.
(By the Internsatoal News Serviee.)
London, Oct. 1.-In desperate fighting,
today south of the Somme, the French
won two notable successes. They carried
a first line German trench east of Belloy
en-Santerre. and captured by storm the
hamlet of Guermont and a sugar fa.
tory, northeast of Ablaincourt.
The battle for Ablaincourt continues.
Each side has a foothold In the town.
and fighting of the most sanguinary char
acter is In progress.
German troops last night launched a
mighty blow at the French positions
around Ablaincourt. Paris admitted they
made progress, but official announcement
was made tonight that the ground lost,
was re-captured in the counter-attack
which today resulted In the taking -of
Guermont and the sugar faCtory.
While the Germans were being ham
mered south of tihe Somme, the French
launched successful attacks against the
Teutons north of the river, In the vi
cinity of Bouchavesnes.
The official night report from Paris
follows:
"South of the Somme our troops made
two brilliant attacks. One atta k north
cast of Biloy-er-Santerre, put us In pos
session of the first German line on a
front of two kilometers; the other result
led in the cipture of the hamlet of Guer.
mont and the sugar factory 1,20 meters
northeast of Ablaincourt. We have
counted up to now M unwounded prim- t
oners, of whem seventeen were officers. 1
"There was ornlY intermittent cannon- I
ading oi the remainder of the front." I
FIRST D. . MILITIA
BACK FROM BORDER
Separate Battalion Reaches Rosslyn,
Va.. from Camp at Naco. Ariz.
The first unit of District National
(Gardnmen to returnl fronm the b)order
it, Irirt s,-parate tr'-ttalion of colored
.:.ops--reachi tie 'pital last night c
from Nuwo, Ariz. t
The train on which they have been
traveling for a week ran into the Poto
mac yards at 10:4> o'clock and stayed I
there several nours wait!ng to be finally d
shifted to the ifding at Rosslyn. Va. I
It was nearly 2 o'clock when the troops
finally reached Rosslyn, where they slept
through the nittht In the cars. After
reveille this morning they will unload the. 2
cars and march to Camp Ordway, Fort9
Myer, Va., where they will plt*:h camp '
and wait to be mustered oit of the Fed
,ral service. Tt will prohaibly take about
ten days to complete the muster out I
,lmong with the ninety-seven recruits now
Lt the camp. c
The fIeld hospital is at Douglas, Ariz., c
with orders to move, and ready to leavelt
on short notice, but on account of a a
shortage of roiling stock, it will probably
notleave for a few days.
The remainder of the )istrlct militia- 1
men are divided as follows: Third In
fantry and TrooI, A Cavalry, San An
tonin, Tex.; Battery A, Fort Sam Htous
ton, Tex.; Battery B, Douglas, Ariz.; Sig
nal Corps, Nogales, Ariz.
PARIS POLICE RAID
SOCIETY "DOPE" DENS
(By the Internatieal News Service.)
Paris, Oct. 14.-A campaign has been
launched to wipe out the opium dens in
te fashionable quarter of Paris. In one
raid the police found quarters fitted up'(
in the most luxurious style for opium '
parties for society men and women. I
In one of these palatial resorts, in the g
Paromonceau district, the police came I
upon Jean Guitry, son of France's great- 1
est actor. Guitry denies that he gave I
drug parties, but he will be prosecuted, t
the authorities said, for having narcotics
in his possession unlawfully.
---- - f
ACTIVITIES OF U-53 i
HELD TO BE ILLEGAL
London, Oct. 14.-Lord Robert Cecil, in t
Ian interview printed here today, declared (
the attacks on merchant ships by Ger- I
man submarines off the United States
coast were illegal. This was the first
statement by any British official on
U-boat activities in American waters and
the first Intimation from an Official
source that the British government re
gards the attacks as a violation of In
ternational law.
Lord Robert Cecil is parliamentary sec
retary to the foreign office and minister
of trade and blockade.
GERMANY OFFERS TO PAY.
Will Make Reparation for Sinking
of Bloomers4ijk.
Amsterdam. Oct. 14.-Germany is willing
to make reparation for the destruction
of the Dutch freighter Bloomersdijk off
the American coast last Sunday by a
submarine. A dispatch from Berlin today
says that the Dutch ship was sunk "con
trary to orders" and that the imperial
government l willing to pay indemnity.
LEARNS TO REATD AT NMhETY,
l:anville, Oct. 14.-"Aunt Mary" Nor
cruss, 90o years old, whose sixteenth child
was married last spring, is learning toJ
read.
"I've always wanted to read,' she saidt
over the top of a newspaper, as she1r
rocked on the porch at her country home,1:
"but until now I've never had time." a
During her childhood she asisted with
the farm work and after marriage helped
her hmushaind in making sufficient money
to rear their large family,
Vienna (via Berlin wireless). Oct. 14.-b
Two air raids were carried out against
Italian military works on) October 12. it1
Was announced today by the admiralty.,c
In the afternoo a squadron of naval a
planes shelled ~4th explosive, and incen- II
diary bombs Adria and Montaloone. In
the evening another suadr Us akedn I
military objects in Sela, Veemfngnano,t
Porto Grado. and Monfacne. 'All the I
machines returned.
Medueed Pause fes Yeims.
Southern Railway. Comumit emu
C-BOAT EXPLOSION
. KILLS GUNNER'S MATE
An explosion of gasoline fumes in an
Impty tank aboard the submarine C-6 re
lulted yesterday in the death of Wesley
McCartney. a'gunner's mate.
The explosion occurred while the sub
narine was in dry dock at Cristobal. Mc
!artney enlisted from Gasport, N. Y.
The damage to ,the submarine was re
;orted slight.
Telegraph Tips
Poughkeepsie, N. Y.. Oct. 14.-Fed by
'O gallons of gasoline, fire wiped out the
>lant of the Price Fireproofing Company
oday causing $200,000 damage. For a time
he whole water front manufacturing see
Ion was threatened.
Springfield. Mass., Oct. 14.-One man was
tilled, another Ia dying and two more
were seriously inJured as the result of
wave of crime which swept the Syrian
olony here today and extended to Chi
rope Falls. Two Syrians are being held
Py the police, one charged with murder,
he other with attempted murder.
Baltimore, Md., Oct. 14.-To relieve the
treet car strike situation in New York.
C. A. Maher, vice president of the Third
tvenue Railway system of that city to
lay opened an office here to enroll strike
reakers.
Berlin, Oct. 14-Dr. Karl IUebknecht, So
ialist member of th.- Riechstag, recently
entencel to four years and four months
or military treason, today scored a point
,hen the Relchstag committee refused to
unction the new court martial proceed
ngs at Thorn.
Ellswort, Maine. Oct. 14.-Guy Small
oday pleaded guilty to the murder of
drs. Emma Turnbull and was sentenced
D life imprisonment, the most severe pun
shment allowable.
London. Oct. 14.-I-Dispatches from
,thens today said that the French have
aken over control of the port of Piraeus,
he seaport of the Greek capital.
Chicago, Oct. IJ.-Fred McCoy. 49. a fur
-aler of Philadelphia, dropped dead to
ay while leaving the home of Mrs. J.
ohnson, whom he was visiting. Heart
isease or appopicay was the cause.
Berlin (via Cayville wireless), Oct. 14.
;ermans and Hungarian civilians in
"ransylvania were driven into the Alt
tiver by Roumanian -ldiers with knouts
het Austro-ltungarian governmen
harges in a statement made public bv
he Overseas News Agency today.
Pittsburgh, Pa.. Oct. 14.-Directors of
'ublic Works Robert Swan, 57, died sud
enly of heart disease today at his East
nd hone.
Alliance. Ohio. Oct. 14.-Fire early to
ay gutted three business blocks on Mast
fain street, routing from their beds a
core of tenants in apartments upstaire.
'he loss may reatp. $0,000.
Chicago, Oct. 1i--Marion Lambert, the
.lke Forest school girl fr whose death
Villiam J. Orpet was tried on a charge
f iurder, is to be replaced in the home
f her parents. Mr. arid Mrs. Frank tam
ert, by a little baby girl. Lambert
nnounced today a child will be adopted.
Pittsburgh. Pa.. Oct. 14--Believing a
iilk strike on Mo day morning is Inevit
lIe. PIttsburgh (f-alers today were en
cavoring to rnak, arrangemente to se
ore a supply front other sources than the
orthern Ohio Milk Producers' Associa
ion, which furnishes about S5 per cent
f the milk used in the city.
Part-. Oct. 14.-Norman Prince,
ncrican member of the aviation cor.,
as had both of his legs broken in an
eroplane accident. It was announced
aday that he was progressing favorably.
'rince In from Boston.
Berlin (via SayvIlle), Oct. 14.-A spirited
enial was made by the semi-official
lverseas News Agency today of the re
ort received here Thursday from the
'oldhu wireless agency, a British or
anization, that German seaplanes in at
acking the Roumanian seaport Con
tarnza, dropped poisoned sweets and
Ictuals and bombs infected by cholera
acilli.
Paris, Oct. 14.-"Once Roumania is de
eated the road to peace will be wide
pen.' said M. Radoslavoff, premier of
tulgaria. in an Interview that was tel
graphed here today.
London. Oct. 14.-The allied military au
horities have issued a decree prohibiting
;reek citizens from carrying arms, says
news agency dispatch from Athens to
ay.
Paris, Oct. 14.-William Chester Silbert
nann, who claims to be an American
itizen. was today sentenced to six
nonth's imprisonment and fined $100 for
rading with the enemy. He was the
gent for a German rubber house.
Paris, Oct. 14.-French newspapers con
Inue to criticise President Wilson very
>tterly because of the refusal to bar
;erman submarines from United States
vaters.
New Tork, Oct. 14-The milk strike
ame to an end today. The farmers and
mall dairymen who were fighting with
hem have won. The four big distribut
ng companics in Greater New York have
greed to give the farmers an increase
f about 4- per cent over the former
rice paid for the commodity.
Minneapolis, Minn., Oct. 14.-The estate
f the late Thomas 1,. Shevlin, wealthy
imberman and formerly a Yale football
tar, is valued at $2.189,675, according to
report of the executors, who acted as
.ppraisers of the estate.
Binghamton. N. Y., Oct. 14.-Endicott
ohinson & Company. one of the largest
hoe manufacturing concerns in the coun
ry, employing 1,150 persons, have an..
ounoed a voluntary reduction of wor't
rig time from sixty to forty-eight hours
week without reduction in pay.
Los Angeles. Oct. 14.-"Daddy" Frank
E. Luce. 60. "the unluckiest man in Los
Lhgeles,'' met hIs death by failing a
ew feet down stairs at No. US% South
pring street. Mr. Luce had survived
riany accidents. A trolley car had brush
d him aside; once he fell from the Mlacy
treet Bridge, abdut forty feet.
Boston. Mass., Oct. 14.-Four men rem
imed from an open dory after they had
.bandoned the schooner Helen Hiam
touck, dismasted in a gale fifty miles
outn of Sea.l Island. Me., on Bunday,
tave been brought into this port on board
he British steamship Saxon Monarch,
rom Glasgow.
Su.iar oura te Vredmaek, S.e
lagerstowrn, l35. a3ltimore and Ohio
a. U. et. 2. aturming samne Oar
ROUMANIA HOLDS
TEUTONS AT BAY
Desperately Defends Own Soil
from Invasion.
(By the International News Service.)
London. Oct. 14.-The Rounanian first
and second armies, beaten and torn all
but annihilated in their attempted Inva
sion of Transylvania. have turned at
their frontier and, at bay and desperate,
are fiercely resisting the Teutonic in
vasion of their soil.
Their heroic effort to repel the forces
of the Central powers is to be led by
King Ferdinand himself, according to a
report from Bucharest. Russian re-en
forcements also are being hurried for
ward.
Berlin, while admitting that at one
point west of Vulcan Pass the Rouman
tans have gained a foothold on the line
of the ridge of hills which form the com
nianding position in that sector, reports
that on the eastern Transylvania front
the Roumanians are still in retreat and
are being hard pressed by the Austro
Germans.
Northeast of Kronstadt, where the Rou
manians suffered their most disastrous
defeat a fortnight ago, the troops of
King Ferdinand have recaptured a Nil
lage on Roumanian soil southeast of
Orna as wrell as a town on the frontipr
in the region of Betroseny. Bucharest
claims the capture up to now, on all its
fronts, of 15.000 prisoners.
The report Issued at Bucharest says:
"The enemy has retired at Predelus. At
Predal we repelled two attacks. Our
troops have been obliged to retire frot
Guivala to Rucar* in the region of
Jiul we have capturtd by assault Mount
Siguiello and Muncelumare. The enemy
suffered heavy losses and withdrew in
disorder."
DEMOCRATS WILL AID
HOM[-GOING VOTERS
Women's Wilson Union to Assist Per
sons Desiring to Visit Polls.
"Any registered Democratic voter who
cannot afford th trip back home to vote
will be helped by the Women's Wilson
Union," declared Mrs.. James Boggs last
night at the meeting of the union in the
old Cafe Republique Building.
Charges that the Republican party has
attempted to stir up religious prejudice
were made by James Eashy-Smith. the
tirst speaker. He was applauded when he
said:
* Any man who atteMpt. to arouse re
ligious prejudice should be driven from
the country."
Timothy Hogan. former member of
('ongress decried the attempts to bring
religious issues into the campaign and
predicted that Ohio would go Democratic
in the Presidential election by a majority
of from 30.000 to 50.000. Mr. Hogan said:
"Woodrow Wilson is the most capable
and eficient President that has ever been
in th, White House."
John R. Riggles, of the Wilson Eight
Hour Lteague. and a well-known labor
leader, told why the Democratic party
would receive the support of labor.
Walter Sorrell. tenor, sang "Where 'fy
Caravan Has Rested."
Secretary of War Baker, who was an
nounced to speak, was unable to attend
because of illness.
ODDS ON HUGHES DROP
FROM 2 TO ITO 10 TO 7
New York, Oct. H.-An appreciable in
crease in the volume of money offered to
be bet that President Wilson will be re
elected caused n further slump in the
favoritism of liuvhes in Wall Street to
day. Small bets were made in the Tin;'n
cial district at 10 to -. with the backers
of Hughes in some instances offering only
even money. A few days ago Hughes was
a 2-to-1 favorite.
Edward icQuade, the betting commis
sioner, concluded a wager of $00 to $1.000
on Wilson. while a curb broker placed
$l.600 to 2.000 on Wilson.
A prominent stock exchange firm is re
ported to have 1100,00 to place ,n Wilson
at odds of 7 to 10.
BATTLING AVIATORS
OBSCURE SUN'S RAYS
Berlin, Oct. 14.-About 10) aeroplanes
were engaged in the mighty air b-ttle .,,-r
Obendorf-on-Neckar, in which fifteen ma
chines were shot down, it is reported in
advices reaching here today.
At times there were so many machines
in the air that the sun was obscured and
the roar of scores of machine guns in
action at once, coupled with the bursting
of bombs. gave the impression of a gi
gantic engagement. The munitions plant
was not damaged, but a number of houses
were demolished and five persons were
killed.
POPE WATCHING U-BOATS.
Seeks Iaformation as to tobserva
tion of Pledges to America.
Rome, Oct. 1.-Mgr. Bonsano, Papal
representative at Washington. is keep
ing in close touch with the submarine
situation for the purpose of informing
Pope Benedict Whether Germany has vio
lated her pledges to the I'nited Stales.
Roame newspapers reported today that
the Kaiser has refused to grant permis
sion to the Papal Nuncio at Munmch to
visit Italy for the November consistory.
The Kaiser is said to be displeased with
the Nunclo, but Pope Benedict refused
to make any change.
BATH SLEEP MAY BE PATAL.
Plainfid, N. J1., Oct. 14-Failing asleep
in a bathtub after a hard game of golf.
may have fatal resuIts for Samnuel B.
Thompson, a New York cotton broker, of
Martin. avenue. Fanwood. He spent last
Sunday on the links of the Westfleld Golf
Club, returning htome thoroughly tired.
After filling the tub with hot water he
jumped in and fell fast asleep. He awoke
about three hours later. The water in
the ineantine bad become cold. Thor
oughly chilled. Mr-. Thompson became
seriously ill and his condition is said to
be critical.
Attend Great Frederiek Fair
Qat.17 te0..Balanore and Ohio. 82.50.
animeat e 8t : a. .. 18th. .ad 18te
UNITED STAl
BY ALLIED
ON SEIZL
England and France.
Protest, but R<
Procedur
The reply of France and Gre
respectity Anglo-French interference
and the unlawful diversion of mail sh
,rejection of all the State Department
The note was made public by t
The note, in effect, admits in
Iimmunity of mail, which is recognize
and France assert they have the r
seeking both contraband and enemy
CHALLENGE TO
The conflict arising between the
band and the neutral right recognized
of letter mail is the heart of the c
argument used by the State Departm
United States respect for this country
In virtually admitting the right
declares it cannot be enforced. The
as it is generally regarded as being ti
governments on the subject.
PLAYS FOR MOOSE
Wilson Makes Plea and Pre
dicts Own Success.
tBy the lsternatiemal News %ervice.)
Atbury Park, N. J.. oct. 4 -President
Wilson. addressing .tifi voters amsembid
Ps delegations from Pennsylvania at
Shadcw Lawin this aIternoon. previct d
his own re-election as a certainty. le
also asserted that his reports indicated
a Democratic vi-tory in New York State.
In a direct appeal for Progressive
otes, Mr. Wilson lauded the purpose o1
the two nat ional conventions held by that
party, but said the delegates had bee
deceived and betrayed."
ie asserted-'tbat in Pennsylidra and
New Jersey an effort is being made to
caddle on the communities men who have
been for years in the confidence of poll
ticians who have defied the laws of the
two States. In this -onnectiotn a warn
ing was sounded agianst the danger of
electing a Democratic President and a
Itpublican Congress.
"A President without Con::rcs is as ab
surd and useless as a figurehead." said
Mr. Wilson. 'He can ;:et you into trou
but he cannot get Nou out."
Referring to peace and Ihi , harge made
by the Repbtilica.ne that the policy of the
administration has been weak in dealing
with the belligerents of Europe. he said:
"We are saving ourselves in order that
we may unite In that final league of na
tions in which it haIl be understood that
there is no neutrality where any nation
is doing wrong."
Vance C. McCormick. chairman of the
Democratic National Committee. was giv
en a noisy greeting by the Pennsylvania
visitors as the next governor of the State.
A. Mitchel Palmer. in introducing Mr.
Wilson, proclaimed him the greatest liv
ing progressive.
MEXICANS MAY QUIT
BORDER CONFERENCE
Failure to Accept Carranza Terms
Likely to Cause Split.
(By the Intersatonmal News .%eriee.0
Atlantic City. N. J.. Oct. 34.-Senor
Cabrera, head of the Mexican peace con
missioners. delayed the deliberations oi
the conference today by leaving Atlantic
City for Philadelphia. lie would not deny
that he was going to confer with Ambar
sador Arredondo. who has just returned
from Mexico City.
During Cabrera's absence the American
delegates marked time.
It was freely predicted tonight that aft
er seeing Arredondo. Senor Cabrera will
take a stilI more de-fiant attitude. It
was said he may go as far , to threaten
to quIt the conference when it reconvenes
next Monday unless the Americans sign
the border control plan and fix the earliest
possible (ate for the withdrawal of the
Americans troops from Mexico.
Oarranza's ultimatum which Arredondc
has brought back from Mexico City is
practically to this effect
BIG SHIPPING DEAL CLOSED.
Wilson Steaanhlp Lime gold to Sir
Jlob. Eller-aan.
London. Oct. 14.-The biggest shipping
deal in the history of England has just
been consummnatd at Hull, by Which the
Wilson Steamship Line is acquired by Sir
John Ellerman.
The Wilson Line was the biggest pri
vately owned shipping company in thi
w rld, operating eighty-four vessels hav
ing a total tonnage of 20s.000. The figures
were not revealed.
SPIDER LIVES TmX FISH.
London, Oct. 1.-A spider has beeqwdis
cover-ed in the fresh water ponds and
ditches of the British Isles that possesses
all the habits of a fish and yet breathes
in air the same as land spIders do. Thi.
qlueer srachnid weaves a sort of web o'
sack, carries it below the surface anf
foetetns it to some reed or reef to erve as
his home. In a series of trips to the
surface he carries down each time a ii
of air which he deposits In the sack
When the sack is full he enters It ard
enjoys a qtuiet life as long as the suppi)
of air lasts.
Quickest Beevsto Bfalimers.
Evy Hour on the Hour. gitinors
7ES DEFIED
MINISTRIES
fRES OF MAIL
Acknowledge Right of
fuse to Change
e of Past.
it Britain to the American demaalp
Nith American nails oil the high ees.
ps into British ports. is an undiaguised
's contentions.
ie State Department last night.
principle. but denies in practice, the
d in international law. Great Britain
ght to inspect American mails while
correspondence.
UNITED STATES.
belligerent right to tearch for contra
,y the lawv of nations in the nvolabihty
:ntroversy. The reply combats every
!nt in its attempt to maintain for the
s rights on the high seas.
of the United States. Greda Britain
eply is a challenge to thi. government.
e final word of the British and French
I tlhi of Ds eso i me.
' 'T.tiflbhd ga rr *, ;he
' ht r t a d n r. . *' f. m
i-j ports f.r th. r a.
tOrmg or .onite ing wai. r-I:!er.
Thi. claim tii !t ,r .-a -
11 denid in II, ir ane, of t i n
,f -hit, ith -aCgoer a s . 1. :- T w
with tail, It ha> -n u-m*, as
",s:! ! : ,I 0 :.t fM N . ban
*LM !1Ai a. a on i. 1t denrial of rights
laranteed b, bh 1, clbtorn, and the
la., Of nvittnr
The, Ameriar T.otion I' that Great
Britar h:'s to ht for-Ibly to take
nuctrim ve-il Irt, British ports Ccept
with ti., ermn of the rovertmfet
a hose I aX ?h, hips f1y
Ireat Bntaitn arta -rance mn their note
d-lare some vessels voluntarily enter
alled ports for examination of their
mallp, skipper. of such ships being so
directed b3 their owners.
The note savs
'We Diferent Treatment.
"On this fir-t point and as regaes v.
sels summoned on the high seas mnd ensr
Pelle" p make for an aJed pe.t the a
0ied goVernments ha-e :%@ isainr4o &fs
I vise the government of the United States
that they have never subjected mail to a
different treatment according as ther
were found on n neutral vassel on th.
high seas or on neutral vessei. comrpeled
to ;-roceed to an a:hed- port. theyc hav- a
nay - knswledged that visit made in
the port after a forced chiange of cous.
must in this respect be on the same foo.
g:n as a visit on the high seas. and the
rTi-ism formu'ated by the goe-rnent
the United States does not the-fo-e
teem warranted
As to shipe which of their own ar-ord
call at allied ports it is Important to
point out that in this case the ar, realle
voluntarily' making the calling as an
aPllied master acts. not on any 0-der from
the al:ied authorities. but sO:ey carries
-out the mestractions of the owrter neither
are those instructions forced upon the
said owier In consideration of certain
advantages derived from the call at an
allied port, of which he is at full liberty
to enjoy or refuse the benefits. the own
ers instruct his captain to cal: at this or
that port. ie does not in truth undergo
any restraint."
All ShipS "Coeiied."
As the matter is regard-: here. the
vesse:s do not. In fact. voluntar'L enter
British ports. Coercion is exelsed In
the form of dental to Fucih hinp as re
fuse "voluntarly'' to enter British ports.
of the right to coal at British ports, to
take out British maritime insurance or
to use British cables or banking facilities.
Owners of vessels. it was said by au
thorlty. naturally would consider It the
safer thing to submit to this form of
compulsion. retaining their coa:Ing and
other rrivileges. than to be denied all.
and at the same time have their ves
els forcibly convoyed into British juris
diction.
TOM GRANT, JR., TO JOIN
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
When it comes to having real young
blood the Washington Chamber of Cow
merce probably will eurpea any bust
ness organization in the world.
The 7atemt member for the big cam.
mereig body proposed yesterday Is only
two days old and he will be elected to
full membership at the next meeting.
Tom Grant. jr., son of the aggremsve
and hustling secretary of the Chamber.
wins the honor. He is the son of See
retary Tom Grant and Is propoeed by
President P. T. Moran.
"He doesn't know anything about whet
commercial conAtions will be after the
European war. but he comes from goed
stock and by the time he gets around to
thinking about business, he ought to be
one of the eipt..ins of industy in th
Capital." said President Morsa.
ii. S. FIERS A SLU.
Naval Aerepim==e to senen te
E-Beat 3as.
Newport. R. I., Oct. 4--United 3t
naval aeroplanes are to be used in pebml
duty along the coast and Sn the seerch .t
anty secret submarine base the Ge
may have estabtished on the enoa.
The aviation ahip North drelina ar
rived here today with full eqaipsut .t
flying machines and will os-epsrate via
the fleet of deatroyers that hem hem
steaming up end down the ent iee
tor- U-boat vietime er usebmilly yg&
tions
New York. Oct. 14.-.Have you get pew
share of the proeprty ware?
According to reports oncmpnael n
York today more thaa MUU gee
parity cash alreedy hesm e late &
purchase or consatuction of pgrvte Iw.
ings during the pest nine mtoe. a
estimates from all bte of the esbg
indicate that fully I2S.UA vS be ~
isea totel knvetmt aSe
