DAILY EDITION
VOL. VII., No, iil. OIUNT8 PAHS, JOHEPHIXK COUNTY, OREGON, BIWD.1Y, OtTOUKIt 15, JOIO ''..';.':'. WHOLE XVMBER 1875.
So Otlir Town in tbe World the Bise of Or ante' Pass Has a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegrapii feervice. -v
! J
TWO OREGON
TEAIWS WIN
rnntn 1 1 i
lllllllinil
llllllllUI I
lUUIUflLL
The Washington State College
Deven Defeated on Rogers'
111 ' VU ,ww
Field by Score of 13 to 10
LA1TD CiJ
by U. A.U Boys Mturoay
Pullman. WmIi.. Oft. 14 AH The wreck waa caused by spreading
though the Washington Stat fool ball 'rails. Telephone advices from the
(am ahowed superior offensive power,
the Oregon Aggie defeated them
thirteen to ten on Rogers' Held today.
Constant fumbling by Washington
enabled the visitors la score. The
ball wu in Oregon' territory moat or
Hi. ih..H. The Aiiie scored a touch-
down In the Aral quarter. Waahlug
ton drop-kicked from the forty-yard
line In the second quarter, and Coon,
of the Aggie, drop-kicked success-
fully In the third quarter. In the last I
period Coon again kicked between
to poata, making the Aggie' acor
thirteen. Boone, for Washington,,
m ahoved acrosa for a touchdown J
before time we called. I
11 1 1 ' ..: , .
Kugena. Ore., Oct. H. In a rag-
gad exhibition of football. Omon d-
feated .Multnomah Z to nothing.
Oregon completed two forward paaae
In all attempt. Both want for
touchdown. In the tecond period
Oregon worked the bull to the three
yard line, and Paniona plunged
through, acorlng. Both teama punt
ed frequently. Inv the laat quar
ter Multnomah dropped Bockelt'a
punt, and Mitchell grabbed the ball
nd aprinted over the line for a
touchdown.
BAYOHNE STRIKE
HAS BEEN -BROKEN
Uayonne. N. J., Oct. 14. Convlnc
d they have, broken the atrika of
ever! thousand oil worker in which
three peraona have boen killed, and
acorea Injured, Bayonu. officials to
day planned to turn the worker back
to their task through an entirely
new departure In the handling of auch
situation.
A monster meeting of atrlkera and
,tno. woo retu.ea 10 . '"
oi violence .y ..,,.. , u un ,u,
canea tor tnis morning uy V,U""",B
loner or ruOIIC. saieiy Henry wuaon.
Wllaon planned to addre the
atrlkera on a big open plain known
a "thejlat." to tell them the atrlke
I broken and that ho hna the promise
of the oompanlei that all will be glv
n back (hair place,
The plan admittedly was an expert-
-ment and despite the olalra that police i
Authority now prevails, following the
gun battle that accompanied rioting
and looting, every available police
man waa on the Job armed with rifles
or automatic, when th workers
started for "the flats" In the heart
of the strike none. A comparatively
quiet night gave the officials further
hope today that the police hnve
thoroughly cowed the rioter by the
Almost Incessant raids (hey have been
making for th last three da,vaon
the homes of worklngmen suspected
of having arms and ammunition, This
search will continue tonight and Sun
day. By Monday, when (he big plants
of the Btandard Oil CompanV of New
Jersey open, officials hope to hnve
completely eliminated any chance for
such fittul disorders' ns marked the
course of the strike up to yesterdny,
Mrs, R. P. Wvnns, nf Woodburn, Is
visiting her brother, Rev, J. h, (Irocn,
near the llrtfrin ferry.
31
lie
IN TRAIN WRECK
W(mmvMo. Cal., Oct. 14. Three
PTna were Injur) the retilt of
!" derailment of the '"Lark," the
'Southern Pacific's !. Aiigelcs-Ban
Francisco night train, at Aromas,
seven miles north of ben-, at 7; 50
io cl,,ck ,h" morn,nK Mr" Bu
tUl. of San Francisco, sustained two
broknn r, n iriy woman.
nm ont ' crtlned. was badly
,,ak"nipn(',"-ui,,wi- a man cum
'named Hooper kino utlned sever
bruises.
scene n hour after the derailment
were that ths engine, tender, bag
im, express and dlnlnit esrs and sev
eral sleeping car left the rati. The
engine, tender, baggsge. express and
;dn(l riri turned over on their aid
and one sleeper I declared to have
lrted lo turn over on It aide. Mra.
Rsllsgla waa In thla ear.
BERLIN ESTIMATES
BIG ALLIED LOSSES
Berlin, via 8ay villa, Oct. 14
jMtiely fresh Anglo-French dlvlalona
(about M20.0Q0 Man) were prnc
Ucallr annihilated A In the ' three
month and a half of the Somme
offenalve, the military critic of the
aeml-offlclal Newa Agency aaserted
today.
Theae dlvlalona were withdrawn
and dlaappeared completely from the
battle, he wrote. Fifty-five dlvlalona
in conaequence of heavy loeaea, could
engage in the combat only twice, fif
teen dlvlalona were In action three
time and only one remained o In
tact that H could enter the battle four
different time.
Four division were beaten ao bad
ly that, after the aecond engagement
they had to be aent to front where
little fighting occurred, but on critic
al day were recalled and cent to
other front.
Ulnce the beginning of the offen
alve 178 dlvlalona (3,184.000 men),
partly new and partly filled up, have
been launched agalMt the German
'positions, the military critic atated.
Ruaalan loaaea from June 1 to Oct.
1, he eatlmated at about 1.000.000
men, quoting the atatement of a Kiev
officer tn a Swiss newapaper a au
thority. Some Siberian and Cosck
regiment were completely annihil
ated, and the fourth Serbian Army
corp. alone loet between 18.000 and
,4i000 m(m fronl August 81 to Sep-
ember j,
CHARGE FRAUDS IN
Washington. Oct. 14. Faced by
charges In a dosen states of proposed
frauds in th. coming election, th. do-1
partment of Justice today said It has
no basis for arrests In the newest
angle of the casoc1iarge by cer
tain democratic officials that negroes
ure being taken by hundreds to north
ern slates, particularly Ohio, New
York and Indiana,' -.
' OlHidnls "closed up" when asked
for details or the charge. Chagrin
waa shown at the (Icpnilinciit when
It was learned th it t. some one had
"spilled" Information about the
charges. Senators Tsggart and Kern
of Indiana are known to be among
democratic office, holders who have
expressed fear that tho nenrocn are
to be used tn the election,
William C. -Herrdn, or tho. Justice'
department, who 'Is handling tho cases
tn the absence or Assistant Attorney
General Wallace,, refused to comment
on the chnrgos. v
CALIFORNIA
WOMAN'S SPECIAL FROiW
EAST DUE AT 1:45 TODAY
Notable Delegation Campaigning for Election oi Chas. L
Hughes for President Will Stop in Grants Pass, and
Brief Addresses Will Be Made by Women of National
Repute Upon Subjects of a Non-Political Nature
The Women's Hughe special train,
bearing 80 eminent women from east
ern cities who are campaigning
throughout the west In the Interest
of the republican nominee for the
j
prealdency of the United State, will
arrive In Grant Ps at 1:45 o'clock
thla afternoon. It will remain here
for IS minutes or more, during
which time short sddresses will he
made by some of the ladles aboard.
Word cornea on ahead that the talka
made will not be upon political sub
jects, as that subject Is laid aside on
Sunday, but rhat the addressea will
bear upon phase of civic life or im
provement, In which some of the
women In the party are especially
versed. ,
A delegation of ladles from this
city will go to Glcndale on the morn
ing train,- meeting the special there.
and returning to this city with It. On
It arrival here It will be met by
those who wish to hear what tho vhv
Itora have to offer, the speaking to
take place from the rear coech' of
the train. The public la Invited to
gather at tbe depot ground at 1:43
to greet the special and It passen
gers. The personnel of the party In
clude aome of the foremost workers
and writers in the eastern cities.
among them being the following:
Mrs. Maud Howe Klllott, daughter
of Julia Ward Howe, author of the
"Battle Hymn of the Republic. " Mra.
Elliott Is . herself a distinguished
author, having written, among other
works, "The 3an Rosarla Ranche."
"Atlanta, In the South." "Two in
Italy," "Life and Letters of Julia
Ward Howe."
Mlsa Mary Antln, author or "They
Who Knock at Our Gate." and other
works. Miss Antln waa born at
Polotsk, Russia. She waa educated
In the public schools and Girls' Ijttln
school, Boston, and later studied at
Barnard college. She is nationally
famous as a worker In the Immigra
tion field. i
Dr. Ilasellne Walker, a regular
physician, who is looking after the
health of the women on the special
train.
Mr. Raymond Roblna, sister of
Miss Mary Dreler, aocial welfare
worker. Mra. Roblna la a aocial
MILITANCY OF WILSON SUPPORTERS
LANDS PORTLAND UI 111 JAIL
Portland, Oct. 14. Dr. Marie Equl,
locnl suffraue leader and Wilson nar-
tlMin( WM tnrown lnt0 JftU hero th8
., . .... nf
u"lthM ,ecl,,, trftln'
When the principal meeting or the
Hughes women's special campaign wnen nin equaorons oi wuson wo
opened In a theater at 3 o'clock, Dr. ,me" heckled campaigners from the
Kqul led the Wilson women In a wild .Hughes spoclnl. meeHng cries or "vote
demonstration. Three policemen ,for Hughes," with screams or "W.
solJicd her, dragged hor out of the iwant Wilson,"
seething crowd, and took her to Jail. !- AU down-town street meetings ex
Thero,' they suld, she would have to pcnt om' w cancelled nt the Inst
remain until the Hughes niHl1 "'Innte ln nn effort to defeat the well
leaves Portland tonight. planned democratic, series of demo-
Extra detachment of police were!eratlc counter-demonstrations,
rushed to tho theater Immediately) The location of the street meeting
nfter Or. Eqnl's arrest, when the WU-;" Kpl'1 semt- F'yn brigade 6f
son women started a wild demnnstra-1 Wilson women paraded the sidewalks
tlon, Tho police flnally quieted tho Watchlnit tho automohtlos loaded with
crowd nnd the Hughes speakers start- Hughes supporters,
ed thnlr oratory, Strong Wilson re-1 At 8lxth Rn Al,'el' ilrept n Bnt'
InforromsnU remained In automobile j Prohibition speaker was haranguing
outside the theater waiting for the "mall crowd. Up dashed a big an
meeting to r '.Journ. ' . . Cmtlnned on page I)
economist, and since 1907 ha been
president of the National Women's
Trade t'nlcn league. She it also a .
member of the Chicago Federation of
Labor. She waa appointed by the
governor of Illinois aa a member of
the unemployment commission In
1915.
Dr. Katherine Berne nt Davis Is
commissioner of correction, Xew
York city, and chairman of the board
of parole there.
Mr. Alexander Kohut I first presi
dent of the New York Congress of
Mother and first president of the
New York section of the Council of
Jewish Women. She Is also a mem
ber of the New York city mayor'
committee of unemployment.
Mr. Rheta Child Dorr wa form
erly woman editor of the Xew York
Evening Post, and I now school edi
tor of the New York Evening Mall.
She Is also well known aa a magasine
writer.
Miss Annie S. Peck Is a world-
famous mountain climber, and tbe
Masamaa looked forward with plea
sure to greeting her.
Mr. William Curtis Demorest la
actively interested In tbe welfare of
women, and has taken a prominent
part in suffrage work In New York
She-was an ardent progressive.
Mrs. Edith Elllcott Smith, of New
Jersey,' ha given much time to a
study of conditions affecting rural
life and has written and spoken there
on frequently.
Mrs. Henry Moskowltt is manager
of the labor deportment of the board
of dress and waist manufacturers and
chairman of the committee on amine
ment resources of working girls.
Miss Harriet Vlttum, of Chicago, Is
head resident of the Northwestern
University soltlenient. She Is Inter
ested In educational matters and was
formerly secretary of the Chicago
Women' City club. .
Dr. Katherine P, Edson, of Los
Angeles I chairman of the committee
on public health of the California
State Federation of Women'a clubs.
Other member of the train party
are Mrs. Mebane, Mra. Noble Pren
tice, Mrs. E. S. Burke, Miss Elisabeth
Freeman, Mrs. George W. Aiken, of
8eattle; Mia Hosper Hosford and
Mra. Jameson. -
Portland, Oct, 14. Amaxonlan
warrare ragea in tne streets or Fort-
today, " women supporters of
Hunhes and Wilson c ashed repeated-
v ln Piwned vernal names.
! The old days of militant suffragist
exploits in Kngiana were recalled
FACTORY
WILL BE MODEL
OF CLEANLINESS
Manager ' Nlbley states that the
Grants Pass sugar factory -will be a
model of cleanliness.. All the machin
ery Is now being run upon clear water
to get It absolutely clean, the factory
Is swept, dusted and washed from
ground floor to top, and there will be
absolutely no possibility for contam
ination of the output. Through nse
of the Improved machinery, Mr. Nlb
ley aays that the sugar at no stage of
Ire manufacture I touched by an em
ploye, and with the Interior of the
factory maintaining a standard of
cleanliness equal to that of a hospital,
the employe will also be required to
meet pretty rigid conditions along the
same line. Each man who worka with
in the factory must dress In white,
with white cap and canvas thoea. The
use of tobacco In any form whatever
will be prohibited, and the use of to
bacco within, tbe factory will be
grounds for Immediate dismissal.
Sanitary drinking fountains are In
stalled throughout the factory, these
being supplied from the well sunk up
on the premises. Water from thla
well will also be nsed In washing the
sugar, no river water being used for
thla purpose. ,
TO SETTLE STRIKE
San Francisco, Oct. 14. Two
thousand member of the boiler
makers' union who are on strike at
the Union Iron work today are of
the opinion that the difference will be
: amicably settled and the men will re
turn to work In a few day. This
follows a conference between the
boilermakers' official, officials of the
hlpfittera' union and Union Iron
works' officials at the mayor's office.'
The present strike la peculiar in
the fact that the wages, hours, etc., I
are satisfactory to the men, and they
are working under an agreement with
their employers that Is satisfactory
to all.
Offer of the law and order com
mittee of the Chamber of Commerce
:to supply arien to take the places of
the striking boilermakers were de
clined by the Union Iron works,
which prefer (o settle the matter
with Its men alone.
j at 8: SO a. m. yesterday by the Whit
tomoblle, bearing Mr. Katherine B. sur line Bovlo, which reached thin
Edson, of Los Angeles, and Miss , port from Manchester, England, to- 1
Elisabeth Freeman, of Seattle. The 'day. ;
"wet" speaker waa pressed Into ser-j Some of the Bovlc's officer belleva
vlce to introduce the ladles. " 'the submersible was punning ths '
Dr. Marls Bqul, a local suffragist jDantsb vessel. Others were not oer
and Wilson supporter, started speak- jtain that the Holllg Olar waa being
Ing from a soap box directly across ,cbMed. The Bovlc's oaptatn ordered
the street. Her crowd drowned Mrs. full steam' ahead, and dashed west
Edson's first words with cheers fori ward at the greatest possible speed
Wilson. jto avoid possible attack. '
The Hughes crowd was silent, at- The Holllg Olav left New York
jtentlve. Th WlUon women -were
noisy and demonstrative. Dr. Equl
sooned ceased her speech In derision
of tbe so-called "golden special," and
assumed th role of yell leader.
Police strove to keep the moving
crowds separated while those gather
ed about Mrs. Edson's machine valn-
,ly tried to bear what she said.
I More Wilson automobiles, loaded
with pretty girls, who scattered demo
cratic literature among the Hughes
crowd, wedged into the throng.
Police made them move on.
Soon, however, the crowd was too
dense for .more .machines to move.
Then the Hughes women attacked
battle formation. Three huge auto
mobiles, loaded with women from the
special train drove up and led' In
cheers for Hughes,
j Miss Freeman started speaking
while the Hughes women apparently
ihad the upper hand
When the Hughes machines slowly'
crawled out of the dense crowd the , tn th Straits of Fuca during a deoW
nolsest street meeting ever held ln'f0g yesterday, was floated early to
Portland broke up with a wild day, according to telegraphic advtcea
mingling of cheers, yells and cat- received by th. local weather bureau
!', , . from Tatoosh, .
KUANS
HAHI
Mil
Battling inBalkjcs h&h It
comes Viclezt, Bd Kb;
Cczstanrbe Sti3 Dcbys Eh
trance of Greece ia War
London. Oct. 14. -The Ronman
tana have baited an attempted Austro-
German Invasion south of the Red
Tower pass and hare driven the Tea-
ton back for a'ahort distance from
the border. . Bucharest despatches to
day reported that General von Falk
enbayn'a advance baa been checked
everywhere along the southern Traa
aylranian frontier. On the eastern
frontier the Germans hare been atop- '
ped on tbe Roumanian northern wing
and thrown back at some points by
strong counter-attack. Elsewhere
the Roumanian resistance In stiffen
ing. ;.,:.:.';.;.;,
The battles on 'both allied wings
In the Balkan are again becoming ,
more violent Tbe British are at th
outskirts of the etty of Seres, already ,
uflder bombardment, and baro clear
ed the surrounding eouartry of the
-enemy. - on the. left wing the Bui-
gar! an bare been counter-attacking
desperately, but have been nnaWe to
bend back the Serbian line. '
King Consiantine, despite th
growth of the Venlseloa movement
In Greece, continue to delay plans
for Greece'e entry Into the war. :
" The king told a diplomat, accord
ing to Athena correspondent of tie
Daily Chronicle, ' that he was con
vinced fh Germane would overrun'
Roumanla within 15' day and that
be feared Greece would meet a Ilka .
fate f she Joined tbe allies.
t su;;e :
ON ATLANTIC CUST
New York, Oct 14. A westbound
submarine v waa ' sighted one mile
astern of (be Danish liner Holllg Olar
Thursday for Copenhagen and other
Scandinavian ports, carrying Tl cabin
passengers and other passengers In
the steerage. She waa abont 100 mile
east of New ' York when the Bovlo
saw th. submarine near her y ester
day. Shipping men saw no reason
why she should be attacked, and
thought that possibly a German U
boot tell acrosa her path, leading th
Bovlc's officer to believe sh waa be
ing pursued.
Captain Jones of the Boric would
not discuss the statements of the
liner' officers. Captain John Hall,
tbe Sandy Hook pilot, who brought
tnth. Bovlo In, said that Captain Jones
told him he saw only a periscope
and that waa a mile away. He would
have opened fire on the submarine
had It offered a larger target, h
aald.
Tacoma, Oct. 14. The schooner
watson A, West, which went ashors
iii
