,, ,' ... . 4 . ." ' - . . ' " ii,i.yw-.iyf.n '..-'f'L,
""", mmum m MsasMawaaM mmWMMbhw ' gg ' '' J
km iiiii
MAILS
From San Francisco
Manoa, 8ept 5.
For ttn Francisco
Sonoma, Sept 5
From Vancouver:
Niagara, Sept 6.
For Vancouver:
Makura, Sept 15.
i
I'"
Evening Bulletin, Est 1882, No." CS71
IUwaUn Star. Vol. XXIV, No. 7612
12 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, JIOKDAY, SEPTBLMBER 4, 1916.-12 PAESL
PRICE FIVE CENT3
--VRUSSftK
ARMIES DRIVING
LOWGlEASM
i i ii I i . i -1 i
UMANIAN.
: " 1,1 . . . . 2 ' I
is-
b
t V
HUGHES' REFUSAL
LABOR DAY EVEHT
CAUSES SENSATION
Republican Candidate Declines
v to Attend Exercises at
Nashville, Tenn.
IS INFORMEDCANNOT
; SPEAK UPON POLITICS
Also Objects to Reviewing Na
tional Guard Under Con
ditions Imposed
NASHVILLE. Tenn., SepL 4
,4 Charles E. Hughea, Republican -f
candidate for president, caused
a sensation here today by declinr
ing to attend the big Labor Day
celebration, : which, it had been
expected, would be signalized by
his presence. When he was ad- 4-
vised that he was not invited
formally and would not be per-
mitted to ipeak except on non- -f
political subjects, he refueed to -f
attend the exercise and also de-
Clined to review the parade of the '
f Tennessee . National Guard. He ;
Said h had no right to review ;
4 the parade. . V. . . l.: "
ID SHIPPING
cor.no ;:oiv over
loca s. s. u;:es
Belief Here Inter-Island : and
Uatson Companies Under
! ; That the lnter-Islafid Steam Navi
' gatior. tympany and the Matson Navi
gatlcn Ccmpany have been placed un
der the, Jurisdiction of the new ship
ping board by the ; bill Congress has
Just "passed. Is the belief of Honolu
lans who have followed the shipping
till In the senate debate.
Ubiess there was a radical and un
expected change In the bill. It went
through carrying provisions which put
these companies under ; the - govern
ment board, not only In respect to ser
vice, but In respect to rates, which
oay be regulated bythe board.
At last accounts the two following
sections were still In the measure: '
"The term 'commonr carrier by
water In'lnterstate commerce' meant
a common carrier engaged In the
trans portatlort by water of passengers
or property en the high aeas or the
Great' Lakes between one state, terri
tory, district or possession of the
United States and any other state, ter
ritory, district or possession of the
United Statea,,'or between places In
the same territory, district or posses
Ion." V;.:- -.' : " ' -.
REGULATION OF RATES
'Sec 19. That every common car
rler by water In Interstate commerce
shall establish, observe and enforce
lust' and reasonable rates, fares,
charges, classifications and tariffs,
and Just and reasonable regulations
and practices relating thereto and to
the Issuance, form and aubstance of
tickets, receipts and bills of lading,
the manner and method of presenting,
marking, packing and delivering prop
erty for transportation, the carrying of
personal sample and excess baggage,
the facilities for transportation, and
all other matter relating to or con
r.ected with the receiving,, handling,
transporting, storing or delivering of,
property. ,
Every such carrier shall file with
the board and Veep open to public In
spection, In the form and manner and
within the time prescribed by tne
board, the maximum rates, fares and
charges for or In connection witn
transportation between points on Its
own route; and If a through route has
been established, the maximum rates,
fares and charges for or In connec
tion with transportation between
pointa on Its own route and points on
the route of any other carrier by
water. ' -
"No such, carrier . shall : demand,
charge or collect a greater compensa-
. -, -
' (Continued on page two)
LATEST HORROR IN
'PEACEFUL MEXICO'
.
-r
' LAREDO. Texas, SepL 4. Re-
ports have reached here that 25
Mexican soldiers and 11 civilfcms
were killed Thursday, when ban-
dits wrecked a Constitutionalist
troop train between San Luis
and Tampico, after ward" butcher-
lng the train guards. :
Boy Scouts of
Vf,-' ' .. fr'r ' ;, .
' - , .- w . . r
' ,' ' ' - , x , ' ' - , 4 V . - . j V- , .
Here are the Boy Scouts, scores 0
coina into camp at Kallua. 6n wlndwird Oahu.
the extreme left, front .
Boys Make: Fine Appearance
When They March Through
, Streets Toward Pali X
Hawaii's Boj Scnaos are camping
out this week p fmlow further their
ideal to be "PhlRilly strong, mental
ly alert and m4"ly straight" '
;. Scout Alex Perkins drum sounded
a happy rat-tat-tat down Merchant
street, up Fort and out . Nuuanu this
morning at the head of an orderly and
youthful army, the Boy Scouts, of Ha
waii, on their way to Kailua for their
sixth annual encampment They are
In charge of Scout Commissioner
Harry Hayward and return Saturday.
The rhythmic tramp-tramp of about
150 uniformed members, marching
with manly sturdiness, echoed through
the holiday stillness of Honolulu's
thoroughfares; accouterments jangled
merrily and variant hues of gaily col
ored banners snapping in a refreshing
breeze, bespoke , the Joyousness and
cheer of the bearers,
v Less than half a dozen of the march
ers were not in uniform; the remain
der carried ' everything that goes to
make up a scout's equipment Scout
axes, staves, canteens and haversacks
there were and extras In profusion,
such as kodaks,, searchlights, field
glasses and so on.
Lunch Near Pall
Just the other side of the Pall the
boys expected to stop for rest and to
eat lunches which they carried. About
4 o'clock they' expect to be in camp.
MaJ." G. C. Potter, scoutmaster of
Troop I, was designated commander-in-chief
of the line of march by Com
missioner Hayward and piloted the
various patrols out of town and on
through the country. Acting Executive
Rudolph Duncan went as the commis
sioner's first assistant
Early for Assembly
Ordered to report at the capitol
grounds at 9 o'clock for marching
formation, soraj boys were there be
fore S and during the next hour they
streamed In from all directions
through every gate. True to their
number and standing in line. Troop I
members were the first to arrive.
Shortly after 9 the bugle called
"assembly and . the boys took their
places in order of their troop num
bers in a line facing the archives
building. After massing In front of
the same building while many kodaks
snapped, the bugle blew "advance."
The drums rattled and the big march
of the year was on.
Many anxious mothers, proud fath
ers and disappointed scoutmasters
whose work in the city kept them
from accompanying the boys gathered
early at. the capitol. to watch the
maneuvers. Several followed Ihe line
for some distance In cars.
When the , long hike started some
few : bicycle scouts fell out of their
regular position and took places in
the rear..
Ceventeen Troops .Represented
In the scouts' line were represented
17 troops and Troop 21, whicn 1 was
SCOUTS START .
mmMmm
CAMPING TRIP
Honolulu March
' - : .
The scout chiefs and
"hi
' i -"jp;
IIQLIOAY CROWD SEES IS'.' riCOHDS .
Satisfax Marks Up New Figure for the Half Mile First Race
Brings Fastest Three and Fastest Four fleats tver Seen on
Locaf Traclc; :
Before a jolly crowd of more than 2300 at the Kapiolani Park track
this morning Satisfax established a new track record for the half mife and
the fastest three heats and fastest four heats in the history of the park
were trotted in the opening event. Satlsfax's-' record .was made in s the
third race, the half mileis 47 4-5 seconds and 'jowers the record formerly
held by Venus, 48 Beconds. The game little ' army horse was given a
great ovation by the cheering, waving crowd when the time went up on
the board. The crowd simply went wild over the two fold record breaker.
The results of the race were as follows :
; FIRST RACE V
Free-foMll trotting and pacing, two entries; 3 In 4 mile heats, won
by Welcome Boy;, Denervo taking only one heat Heats as follows:
First heat Won by Thomas HolI.ingerY Welcome Boy. Time 2:13 1-5.
Welcome Boy led from the start Coming down the stretch he was chal
lenged by F. H. Locey's D-neryo, bui won by a head, f
Second heat Won by Denervo. Time 2:12 4-5. Both horses were off
with a good start, Welcome Boy lead "ng almost to the wire, when Denervo
came with a rush, challenged and passed, winning by a nose.
. . Third heat Won by V7elcome Bo. Time 2:13. Welcome Boy again
took the pole, leading to the half b three lengths. This first half was
made in 1:05 ."Coming down the stretch Denervo made a great fight fcr
the' lead, but Welcome Boy won out
Fourth heat Wontby Welcome Boy. Time 2:14 3-5. In this heat Wel
come Boy led all the way and pulled up at the finish three lengths ahead
of his rival. This made the fastest three heats and the fastest four heats
ever run on the local track.
SECOND RACE POSTPONED
; THIRD RACE
Four furlongs free-for-all. Won by Lieut R. E. D. Hoyle's Satisfax.
Second, Umpqua; third, Florence Roberts. Time !47 4-5, which breaks the
local track record formerly held by Venus at 48 seconds.
Walter F. Dillingham's Umpqua led from the start and Mrs. Walter F.
Macfarlane's Florence Roberts made -a bid in the early stages of it Satis
fax meanwhile lying back in the field for three furlongs. Coming down the
stretch Umpqua led to within five yards of the wire, when Palmer took
Satisfax up, winning by a neck.
FOURTH RACE
Quarter-mile dash for polo ponies
and ridden by owners or members
owner, Lieut. -. A. Beard. H. K.
cas riding Auntie, owned by H. A. Baldwin, third, and Jay Gould, riding
James opalding't Tiiania, fourth. Time 26 seconds.
Lieut. Beard came from behind at the start and won by a length. Lu
cas brought up Auntie for a great ra :e, but could not catch Titania.
FIFTH RACE
Pcny dash four furlongs for ponies. Won by Lahonton Water, Lite
foot up, owned by Mrs. Walter F. Macfarfane. Time 50 2-5. Second, Young
Lady, Phillips up, owned by J. D. Mclnerhy. Lahonton Water got off with
a start of three lengths and won by an open length over Young Lady.
BASEBALL RESULTS
TODAY
MORNING GAMES
NATIONAL
At Philadelphia-
LEAGUE
Philadelphia
Brooklyn 1.
At Pittsburg Pittsburg 7, St Louis
0.
At Boston Boston 3, New York
AMERICAN LEAGUE
At New York Boston 7, New York
At Washington Washington 2,
Philadelphia 0.
At Detroit Detroit 7, Cleveland 5.
INFANTILE PARALYSIS
- SAFELY ON DECREASE
j (Associated Press ty federal Wireless)
1, i?. NEW YORK, N. Y., SepL 4. In
J iantile paralysis is now assuredly on
1 the decrease. Only 40 new cases and
..... - i ... ... ' X .:-
jher-ups In tha front.tpw.
Commissioner Harry 3.
that have played in a tournament,
of the club. Won by Kai, ridden by hi&no enter a piea in federal court hera
Castle on Jennie c. second; Harry Lu-
Expect Better
Sugar Market
During Week
Alexander &
morning received
Baldwin this
the following
"Week-End" letter on the sugar -f
market from their New York
house, by cable night message:
NEWYORK, Sept. 2.Sales
for the week included 63.503 bags
of Cubas which were mostly in
port or In store. We expect con-
tinued improvement in the mark-
ket next week.
I
, A straw vcte was taken among the
students of Columbia College in the
last two days and shows Wll?onbasl
to marching
through the city and
Hayward Is shown on
Inspector Flavin Gets Cable
: Saying Paia Postmaster
Leaves S. F. Wednesday
... v.; , j , ,...-;,v; v:-
Coming; bere to enter a plea, Morris
K. KephoKalole, postmaster at Pala,
Maul, who has been arrested, for em
bezzlement of money-order funds, will
leave San, Francisco for Honolulu
Wednesday, arriving here Tuesday,
September 12; probably, in custody, of
a United States marshal!;
This news reached Postoffice In
spector Thomas J . Flavin .B' a cable
gram late Saturday, following the re
ceipt a few hours earlier, by the Star
Bulletin of an Associated Press des
patch telling of , Keohokalole's arrest
in San Francisco, and stating that he
had confessed to using $1600 of the
money to support his family. The
cable received by Inspector Flavin
from S. H. Morse, Inspector in charge
of the San Francisco division, tfost-4
office
inspection service, covenng
California, Nevada, Arizona and Ha
waii, confirms the Star-Bulletin's ad
vices. Postmaster Waives Examination'.
i uriner details however, are con
tained in the caolegram trom Chief
inspector Alorse to inspector FlaVin.
liiese are that Keohokaiole was tak
en into custody rhday, waived exam
ination when arraigned in federal
court at San Francisco Saturday; and
will sail on the .Matson liner AUtso
nia Wednesday at noon for Honolulu
alter his arrival
' i sent tne complaint to the coast
two weeks ago," said inspector Havm
j this morning when he authorized the
atar-buiietin to print the information
J contained in the cablegram he rtceiv
; ed late Saturday afternoon, about 4
j clock. ' Probably a United States
i marshal will bring Keohokalole here
i on the Matsonia, and he will plead
when he reaches Honolulu.
Amount Embezzled $2076
I The total amount of Keohokalole's
embezzlements is $2076', according to
I money-order receipts sent by . the vie
i Umized Paia Japanese to the Japun-
ese consulate' here, and forwarded by
j the consulate to Inspector Flavin, for
I evidence, and to assist in untangling
1 the postmaster's manipulation of the
I money.
By the receipts, the a
mounts embez -
zled are as follows $50, $100, $100.
$135, $70, $350, $800. $20, $150, $100,
$50, $100 and $51 The total Is $2u7.
! Surety, Firm Furnished Bond
j Keohokalole was appointed post
master at Paia, Maui, two years ago
: for a four-year term. He took office
: in June, 1914, and his bond of $2i00
iwas fnrnished by the New England
I Casualty Company. His term has
two years yet to run.
Further light was thrown on Keo
hokalole's methods by the money-order
receipts. One on' file , with the
postoffice authorities is a typical spe
cimen. ' - r .i ; -1 ' ' -
: This particular one. No. 6733, Is a
rniTrn ma m
BRITISH AND GERMANS SEND FLIERS TO BOMBARD MANY
- POINTS ALLIES' NAVIES OCCUPYING GREEK PORTS
: AND. GERMAN AGENT IN ATHENS ARRESTED-SLAVS
GET MANY PRISONERS ;
"'-..... (AiwUtfr?rM 8rrl y Ttdwal VTIiIm'j ' '
NEW YORK, X. Y fckpt. 4. Dwpatches rcoeited today from nil
over tb-war arenas of jSurope show that the fighting is particularly
heavy in .the new Balkan wH'tiuuaud on tba-bon! of ..Vustria
Hungary, -where' the llav are crushing their way r down from the
north and' the Rumanians striking hard from the east. '
'?;'; 'Between the l)aube river and the Black sea, the Bulgarians and
Oermanahave farfied the offensive across the Rumanian border an.i
toward 'several o0he towns. Along this entire frontier there is heavy
fighting between the contending sides.
On the weft there are, few developments. The weather in t h
Homme, section is so inclement tliat it has delayed operations in the
trenches and lAth sides are doing little except artillery. fire. '
- :y . '. ,; - ' . : v: :V-' :
rETROpRAI), Russia; Hept. 4. Official-Last week marked a
renewal of tne strong Russian, offensive on the southeastern line and
the Slavs have met with much success. The Russians have crossed the
.Theniovka" river and seized the Austro-German positions on the fur
ther sidd, capturing 2721 prisoners and six machines guns, h ,
J In ije t'arpSithian mountains the : Russians have captured a
whole serieof inountain heights, and have advanced .near the llnn
garian.fi4)ntier clearing the V ay for an early descent from the passes
into the Hungarian plains. . v " .' ': v
. BetWeen Thursday and Sunday Oen. Bnissilof, captured 3S3 of
ficers, 1,(12(1 men, 12 cannon, . 75 machine guns 1 and , seven bomb
mortars. LI. : - " - ' . :; : ' - : ' '
British and Germans Make Air-Ra!:h
; LONDON, England, Sept. 4. Official Tho British in air rais
owr.Belunr-bombarded the Uoboken shipbuilding yards on Satur
day and f he iierodrome at OKistelles on Sunday. '"At both places the
(Jermans; have military establishments. VV .,; 1 ' ;
British captured Germari'defensca SlkVvards deep'along'a front of
000 -yards, including the trenches at Onilleuiont. The whole of
flinchy 1vas first captured, but
give-grannd. They still' retain
Germans wte taken, ' v
BERLIN, Germany; Sept. 4. Official Several "airships' on th
night;of September 2 bombarded London, Yarmouth and Harwich,
dropping explosives on factories and other places of strategic import
atice in the southeast counties and on the Humber. Good effects
1
jwere everywhere observed. '
Romanians StnUbg Hangary'o VMi
BUCHAREST, Rumania, Sept. 4. Official The Rumanians
have ocenpiu the towns of Borszek and Sekeli In Transylvania,, nnd
are cutting'steadily through all this section '-of Austria-Hungary.
Irieastern Rumania, where the Bulgarians crossed the-frontier
along the Black sea. the Teuton-Bufgar forces were repnlsetl in an
attack on Basardjik. r ' ': .K .
Fighting continues between Dodntdja and the Bulgarian1 fron
tier. - ; 7';. r ':. . - "';:' r ' v ' r- -:, "'-..;; -:.
Hostile hydroaeroplanes flew over Rumanian territory tn'fii.v
and dropped bombs on the town
and children.
Allies Wielding, Iron Hand in Greece '
ATHENS, Greece, Sept. 4. Uaron von Sthenic, who ha. di
recting; the (Jerman propaganda in TJr ce, and attempting to it flit
ence public sentiment against the Allies, was arrested today and Ink
en on board an Entente cruiser. f iv
Sixteen more warships have arrived in the roadstead of Piru-us
Greek harbors are steadily being occupied by Aflied warship.
Bulgarians Attack
SALONIKI, Greece, Sept. 4. The Bulgarians today attacked ih?
Allied-Serbian positions west of Iake Ostrovo. French headquarttru
here announces that the Serbians repulsed the attack. ' ; .
"WHITE WINGS" MADE
FAMOUS IN GOTHAM
TO BETRIE&HEEj
White wings will grace the down
town streets soon. " :
George M. Collins, city engineer,
has announced his intention of hiring
five additional men for street clean-
! Ing work and ays b m dress them
in uir uiie euiLH bu i:uiuiuuu uu iua.ui-
land city streets. That will tend to
deter loafing on the Job, he declared
this morning. ' "They will be conspic-
nens In their white suits and It thev
loaf I will soon fin 3 it out" .
DIFFERENCE MAS BEEN
- PEACEFULLY SETTLED
( Spec!! Cabta t Eaws.il eiiapo) "
TOKIO, Japan, Sept 3. The ques
tion of Cheng Chla-Tun violence up
on the Japanese garrison was peace
fully setled by the acceptance in fu'l
of the dens" 1 fro '"a j
teutons mm
INTORULKMKj'
later the British were compelled to
part of the village. . More than 800
- '
of Constanza, wounding civilians
Serb Position
AND EFFECT OF 8-HOUR
DAY UPON THE RAILROADS
(Associated Press y tdrsJ WlrclsM),
WASHINGTON, D. O. SepL 4V
Senator Reed of .Missouri to,'v' -t
reduced a resolution In tw "
house of Congress to aut: ; 7 .
Interstate Commerce Cr . -Investigate
the effect ar
eighmotHr cay jipon the '
report to. Congress In' FT " 'j.
J .
p jj. nag . oeen practical
j Congress will adjourn
I .. 9 m
1ipa si UIIDPITTC f
.JMrMIII flunniCO -
SHIPS TO
':. V (Special CaMe U.
TOKIO, Japan, Ser
ment of the navy bar1 '
torpedoTuoat ' destro
stationed at Honsko
apore under f'l s c
disorders'-rercr: l j .
territory. .
. 1 r -(
. ... .
:rc:
(Continued on pnee. four)
