WEATHER.
Fair tonight and probably tomorrow;
warmer; moderate southerly winds.
Temperature past twenty-four hours
ending at noon today: Highest, 78, at
noon today; lowest, 50. at 5 a.m. today.
For full report see page 4.
1
if ^ B ^ lOir "FjomPreat to Home
fye guemng EsS
1918. Dully Avrrajte. 74.MS; Sunday. 53.712.
No. 29,431.
WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1916-FOURTEEN PAGES.
ONE CENT.
GAINS FOR em
AND FRENCH ARMS
IN S0W1 BATTLE
Advance Along Front of 3,000
Yards for an Average
Depth of 800 Yards.
VILLAGE OF GUILLEMONT
IS TAKEN FROM GERMANS
\
Occupy All of Guinehy. But Lose
Part of It as Kesult of
Counter Attack.
BIG GUN RECORDS BROKEN
Concentration of Artillery on Both
Sides Is Declared to Have Been
Without Precedent in
Warfare.
LONDON", September 4, 3 p.m.
?As the result of fighting yes
terday north of the River Somme,
in France, says the British official
statement issued today, British
troops captured German defenses
on a three-thousand-yard front
for an average depth of 800 yards
md including the village of
1 i lillemont.
The whole of Guinehy at first |
as captured, but the British
ere compelled to give ground,
r.taining hold of part of the vil
i-,ge despite heavy counter at-j
f.cks in the course of the night.
'<>re than 800 Germans were
. ' en prisoners.
Official British Report.
t:,c text of the British official state
? t follows:
"ighting between the Somme and the
re was very severe, the British ad
" nee being: stubbornly contested, and
enemy making repeated determined
-u Titer attacks supported by very
; eavy artillery fire.
The British advance almost every -
.here was successful at the outset, and
r.-.ost of the enemy's counter attacks,
which cost Mm heavy losses, completely
failed to shake the hold of the British
troops on the ground won. The British
\::e is the same as reported last night.
Retarded by Bad Weather.
PARIS, September 4.?Operations on
the Somme front have been retarded by
.id weather, the war office announced
? lay. In the new action fourteen guns
ive been captured by the French. I
doners continue to arrive at the rear. j
East of the Meuse on the Verdun front !
he French yesterday took 400 prison-I
-rs.
The villages of Forest and Clergy-Sur- j
?? mme and all the German positions be- j
tween these two points have been cap- i
tured by the French and British in a
joint attack after Intense artillery prep
aration. More than 2.000 prisoners, as
well as twelve cannon and fifty machine
g-ins were taken.
Tfye official statement issued by the
war office last night, making this an
nouncement, also reported progress for
the French troops in the neighborhood
of Fleury, with the capture of 300 pris
oner#.
Berlin Report of Battle.
BERLIN, September 3, via London,
September 4.?The war office today is
sued the following statement dealing
with the situation on the western front:
"Artillery activity in the region of the
Somme increased to the greatest vio
lence. Between Maurepas and Clery
stJong French attacks collapsed yester
day evening.
"On the right bank of the Meuse (Ver
dun region), on the Thiaumont-Vaux
front, enemy attacks followed extensive
preparation by artillery fire, but they
limited to both sides of the Vaux
Souville road. The attacks were re
pulsed."
Charge Prussian Guards.
WITH THE BRITISH A KM IKS IN
FRANCE September 3, via London, Sep
tember 4?It was "by t!:'? riv'nt flank"
in the concerted Anglo-French atta< k
on : .Somme front today, with the
great battle which never has ceased
for two months flaming up into a gen
eral conflict. Kitchener's new,"army
c*u?. - ? ?J the flower of the German army
?tiie Prussian Guards?four divisions
of which were concentrated before the
I', i .-n to stay the British offensive.
In places the German emperor's favor
i . o?'us were driven back, counter
attacked, and again had to yield their
ciiiii.oned. shell-wrecked trenches to
tt- b'jorn English and Scotch, most of
wb'/i!! two years ago did not know how
to form fours, and who fought all the
It ?<?-!? because of the known prestige
of their foe.
I nnrdly seemed possible that more
artillery could be concentrated against
given areas than had been already, but
mere was concentrated today, both by
British and Germans. Never had so
many guns been in action.
Attacks Not Simultaneous.
The attack was not simultaneous nor
was it along the whole line. Different
sections were timed with* clockwork
regularity, each suiting the purpose of
the commanders, while the French ani
English acted together as if one army.
By the roar of the guns in the early
hours of the morning along the whole
L front no observer could have told where
^ the blows were to fall. Against Thiep
Hr vail, that redoubtable position which the
T British have been gradually approach
ing, no effort was made. But just be
i r> dawn their infantry rushed the old
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
Middle States Association
Events in Progress on Up
per Potomac River.
JUNIOR SINGLE SCULLS
OPENING ATTRACTION
Potomac Boat Club Second in Eight-1
j Oared Shell Race?Winners of !
I I
Morning Honors. |
{ Opening with the junior single
1 sculls, in which there were half a dozen j
entries, the annual middle states re
J gatta, the principal amateur rowing
| event of the country, pot under way
! this morning on the upper Potomac
I river. A large holiday crowd was on
! hand to witness the sixteen races,
i which were run every fifteen minutes
from 10:30 a.m. until late afternoon,
with a recess for luncheon. Entries in
the different races came from Buffalo,
Pittsburgh, New York, Philadelphia,
Baltimore, Richmond, Alexandria and
Washington.
List of Winners.
This morning's results follow:
Intermediate eight-oared shells?Won!
; by Undine Barge Club, Philadelphia; |
? second, Potomac Boat Club, Washing- j
j ton.
j Senior single sculls?Won by George j
| W. Allison, Undine Barge Club, Phila- j
1 delphia; second, Frank L. Patchell, Co- ?
| lumbia B. C., Pittsburgh.
Junior four-oared gig?Won by Arun
i dell B. C., Baltimore; second, Malta B.
j C., Philadelphia.
i Senior single sculls?Wron by John B.
I Kelly, Vesper B. C., Philadelphia; sec
j ond, Louis Zoha, Ravenswood B. C.,
Long Island City, N. Y.
! Junior single sculls?Won by WU-j
liam (}. Boyer, Analostan Boat Club, J
Washington; second, Ralph J. Adams, ^
Columbia Boat Club, Pittsburgh.
Senior quadruple sculls ? Won by;
Vesper Boat Club, Philadelphia; second, '
Potomac Boat Club, Washington.
Contests This Afternoon.
While several of the events in the mid- I
die states rowing regatta were run off I
this morning the main contests are sched- !
uled for this afternoon, beginning at 2:30
o'clock. All the most important races are
to be rowed from that time on, especially
those in which local interest centers. The
races between the eight-oared crews, the
most spectacular of aquatic events, will
take place late in the afternoon, the senior
event being the last on the program.
The eight-oared shells are to appear
this afternoon in what may be a bril
liant series of races. A victory for the
Potomac Boat Club is looked for in the
junior event against the Virginia Boat
Club of Richmond, while the Undine
Club of Philadelphia is said to be about
the best in the intermediate and senior
classes. The Potomacs and Analostans,
the only organizations which cared to
try conclusions with the Uridines, are
in good shape and may give much bet
ter competition than is generally ex
pected.
Police Regulations.
j The following police regulations were in
i vogue during the races this morning and
will hold good this afternoon:
j 1. A vessel of any description shall
not be permitted to pass up or down
I the course during the progress of a
race in such a manner as to endanger
oarsmen or passengers on excursion
| steamers, yachts or other craft, wheth
er observers or participants in the re
I gatta.
J 2. Upon special permission from the
I United States officer in charge vessels j
j may pass over the course immediately I
j before or after a race, at a speed not to j
{ exceed five miles an hour.
I 3. A succession of sharp, short whis- J
; ties from a United States vessel patrol- j
ling the course shall serve as a signal j
for vessels to stop. Pilots of vessels j
shall stop when directed to do so by j
the United States officer in charge.
I Embargo on Traffic Entering New
York Lifted When Strike
Was Called Off.
i NEW YORK, September 4.?Freight
! traffic on all railroads entering New
J York, interrupted by embargoes due
to the fear of a strike, is moving again
today on normal schedule. Railroad
men say that little congestion has re
sulted from the brief embargoes. Large
quantities of merchandise had been
? shipped immediately previous to the
| issuance of hold-up orders. This beiry;
!a holiday, shipments will be lighter
> than ordinarily on Monday and the
j roads will have an opportunity to catch
up with the regular order of freight
movements.
"Ry Tuesday morning." said P. J.
Flynn, vice president of the Lackawana, j
"all the great arteries of traffic will be j
operating on a normal basis?Just as if j
there had never been any strike talk." ?
Demobilizing' the Strikebreakers.
A task before the railroads Is that of
demobilizing the forces of strikebreak
ers assembled last week at consider- j
able expense. A number of these strike
breakers, it is said, were employed on
contracts which still have a week, and
some even a month, to run.
Provision dealers say that the mar- j
kct will slump during the next few
days because a large quantity of food- '
: stuffs held by speculators in expecta- I
tion of famine prices will be dumped on
the market. /
Car Shortage Announced.
CHICAGO. September * ?Shipper*
throughout the country may expect a
car shortage for a few days on account
of the recent threatened tie-up of trans
portation scheduled for today, accord
ing to railroad officials. Nearly all fac
tories and many coal dealers loaded ail
surplus cars in expectation of the
strike, and it will require two or three
days to bring about normal conditions,
they said.
PLEASURE THE RULE
ON LABOR'S OWN DAY
I ~
Out-of-Door Sports Under
Way, With Favorable
Weather Conditions.
BUSINESS SUSPENDED
THROUGHOUT THE CITY
Regatta on the Potomac and Events
at Benning- Prominent Attractions.
Programs Elsewhere.
! With a bright sun overhead and a
cool breeze blowing:., nature rejoiced
with man today over what is regarded
as the most auspicious Labor day in the
history of this holiday set aside for the
workinginan.
Instead of rising upon a city at a
standstill, such as would have been the
case in the event the great railroad
strike had gonty into effect at 7 o'clock,
the sun came up this morning but little
ahead of the thousands of residents of
the District, to look down upon a great
city with its amusement wheels run
ning at full blast.
Government departments and prac
tically all mercantile establishments
closed for the day, with only those
businesses running which public neces
sity demands. On water and land the
people of Washington today celebrate a
glorious Labor day?a day of informal
jollity. At Chesapeake Beach the Cen-^
tral Labor Union settled down this
morning for an all-day session of fun
and frolic.
Outdoor Sports Ch'>f Feature.
Outdoor sports hold the renter of
funland's stage. At Benning track this
afternoon the so-called speed demons
are to tear around the dirt track.
Private automobile parties, not going
so fast, but having every bit as much
fun. were to be seen on all the roads
leading out of the city today.
On the Potomac river the Middle ;
states' Association of Amateur Oars- I
men began a regatta, this morning
which crowded the river with craft.
In addition to the crews, owners of
pleasure boats took advantage of the
holiday and the keen, bracing atmos
phere to start trips to nearby points.
The ball park drew a big crowd, while
the Zoo, Rock Creek Park and other
natural amusement places were dotted
with informal picnic parties. Suburbs
celebrated with various programs, a
two-week carnival starting today at
Mount Rainier, Md., and Hyattsville
being the scene of a festival. Golf
matches were in progress at the su
burban country clubs throughout the
day.
At the German Orphan Asylum, in
Anacostia, this afternoon the kaiser is
scheduled to arrive about 2 o'clock in
an aeroplane, to bring greetings of
friendship to Uncle Sam, who will .be
there waiting for him.
LABOR DAY ALONG HARBOR.
More Generally Observed This Year
Than Usual.
There has been a more general obser
vation of Labor day by the business
places along the harbor this year than
usual, the lumber plants being closed
all day and the other places closing
about noon or earlier. At the steam
boat wharves such clerks as could be
spared were given the day off.
Labor day, as a general thing, marks
the close of the summer excursion sea
son on the river. This year, however.
Marshall Hall will be the only resort to
close with the Labor day trips. After
today the steamer Macalester will not
take excursions to Marshall Hall, but j
will, as usual, continue her daily trips :
to Mount Vernon. Colonial Beach will!
remain open until next Monday. The j
St. Johns will make a trip there to- J
morrow and acain Saturday and Sun- ;
day. On the intervening evenings she
will make moonlight trips. Excursion
trips to Norfolk and Old Point, to Bal
timore and to the lower river will be
continued by the tamers on those
routes for several weeks to come.
UXORICIDE LEAPS FROM TRAIN
Chicago Salesman Had Cut Throat of
Bride of a Month.
CHICAGO, September 4.?J. Maurice
Pettit, traveling salesman, accused of
murdering his bride of a month, leaped
from a speeding Michigan Central train
near Michigan City, Ind., yesterday,
while being brought back to Chicago
from Detroit, where he was arrested
Saturday night.
He was severely injured. The train
was stopped, and officers who had Pettit
in custody placed him aboard the train
again and brought him to a Chicago
hospital.
Pettit. whose mother declared he was
of unsound mind, is charged with cut
ting his wife's throat a few days ago
with a razor because of jealousy.
That he had killed his wife to pre
serve her purity was the strange con
fession Pettit made at the hospital to
Chief of Detectives Larkin.
FRANCISCO MADERO DEAD.
Father of Mexico's Slain President
Found Lifeless in Bed.
NEW YORK, September 4.?Francisco
Madero, father of the late President
Madero of Mexico and one of the largest
land and mine owners in that country,
was found dead in bed at his home here
yesterday from heart disease. He was
sixty-seven years old.
Mr. Madero fled to this city after the
assassination of his two sons, Francisco
Madero, Jr., then President of Mexico, and
Gustavo Madero, who had been financial
agent for the revolutionists. President
Madero was killed February 21, 1913, and
Gustavo, two days before.
The family estates, said to have been
valued at $6,000,000, including large hold
ings of land in northern Mexico, were
confiscated by the Huerta government.
Three weeks ago the Carranza govern
ment informed Mr. Madero that his prop
erty would be restored to him. Julio
Madero, a son, now is in Mexico arrang
ing with the authorities there for the
transfer of the estates.
Spanish War Veterans Meet.
CHICAGO, September 4.?The United
Spanish War Veterans opened their
thirteenth annual encampment here today^
with a street parade. Gov. Edward F.
Dunne will address the veterans and
other speakers will discuss prepared
ness. r
* ?
PLAN IS TO ADJOURN
WEDNESDAY, 6 P.M
Democratic Leaders Agree to
Resolution Setting Day
and Hour.
HOUSE TO PASS IT TODAY;
SENATE MAY GO SLOW
To Amend It if Delay Seems Assured.
Possibility of Obstruction Over
Corrupt Practices Bill.
With railroad legislation out of
the way, congressional leaders
were today engaged in attempts
to bring about a speedy wind-tin
of the- present session of Con
gress, which began nine months
ago. Democratic leaders of Sen
ate and House plan to have a final
adjournment at 6 o'clock Wed
nesday evening, if possible.
At a conference between Senator Sim
mons. chairman of the finance commit
tee, and in charge of the revenue bill;
Senator Martin, chairman of the appro
priations committee, and in charge of
the general deficiency bill?last of the
appropriation measures remaining to be
enacted into law?and Representative
Kitchin, majority leader of the House,
it was determined that a joint resolu
tion providing for an adjournment of
Congress at that hour and day be
passed by the House today and sent to
the Senate. The Senate probably will
not adopt the resolution until it be
comes evident that an adjournment can
be had at the hour specified. If it be
comes apparent that adjournment can
not be taken until later the resolution
will be amended to fix a later hour.
Revenue Bill to Be Bushed.
Senator Simmons said today he hoped
for an adjournment not later than
Thursday. He plans to keep the revenue
bill before the Senate until it is passed.
If it appears possible to reach a vote
before adjournment., today or tonight,
he may ask for a night session. He esti
mates that at least a day and a night
will be needed in conference between
the houses over the bill, since the Sen
ate has amended the House bill radi
cally.
Some delay may be caused by an at
tempt. to amend the revenue bill in the
Senate by adding to it the Webb bill,
permitting combinations of American
exporters to obtain foreign trade for
this country. The Senate finance com
mittee has decided that it will not offer
this bill as an amendment as originally
planned by some members of the com
mittee, but that it will not antagonize
the amendment if offered on the floor
by a senator. It is understood that it
will be so offered. The Webb bill
passed the House Saturday evening.
If Senator Owen again attempts to
get action on his corrupt practices bill
and other senators seek t<5 have the
immigration bill passed at this session
the plans for an early get-away may
be upset. However, so anxious are the
leaders on both sides to bring the ses
sion of Congress to a close that pre
diction was made today that these
measures would not be taken up.
Republicans May Call Up Bill.
Democrats profess a perfect willing
ness to take up and pass the corrupt
practices bill, but state their belief that
the republicans in the Senate would
filibuster against the measure. How
ever, it is possible that, if the demo
crats on the floor of the Senate attempt
again to make political capital from
such a statement, a republican senator
may move to take up the corrupt prac
tires bill. It. is well known that this
would riot, meet with the approval of
all the democratic senators by any
means.
The republicans insist that such a bill
should not be rushed through Congress
at the eleventh hour without due con
sideration. If it is taken up they pro
pose to see that it is given considera
tion.
Fire and Police Pensions.
The only legislation directly affecting
the District of Columbia government re
maining for enactment is the item pro
viding $180,000 to carry out the first
year's necessities under the new pen
sion for firemen and police. This item
passed the Senate Saturday as a Senate
amendment to the general defieieny bill.
MINISTER OF RUMANIA
TO BE HELD AT SOFIA
AMSTERDAM, via London, September
L?The Bulgarian cabinet council has
decided to detain G. C. Derussi, ,the
Rumanian minister at Sofia, with his
staff, until S. Radew, the Bulgarian
minister at Bucharest, has returned,
says a dispatch from Budapest.
PANDITS WRECK TRAIN.
Twenty-Five Mexican Soldiers and
Eleven Passengers Killed.
ALRBDO, Tex., September 4.?Twenty
five Mexican soldiers and eleven pass
engers were killed last Thursday when
a constitutionalist train was wrecked
by bandits claiming allegiance to Car
rero Torres, according to advices reach
ing the border today. The bandits
butchered the train guards and car
ried away everything movable, these
advices say. The wreck occurred be
tween San Luis and Tampico, below
Cardenas.
Germans and Swiss Agree.
PARIS. September 4.?An agreement
has been reached by Switzerland and
Germany in the dispute between those
countries regarding the exchange of
commodities, says the Havas corre
spondent at Bern. j
British Steamers Reported Sunk.
LONDON, September 4.?Lloyds ship
ping agency reports that the following
British steamships had been sunk:
Duart, 3,108 tons, unarmed; Strathallan,
4,404 tons, unarmed; Kelvinia, 3,140
tons, unarmed, crew and passengers
saved; Mascotte, 1,097 tons, of Leith
A dispatch to Reuter's Telegram Com
pany from Amsterdam states that the
Dutch steamer Zeerarend has been tor
pedoed. The crew was saved.
Five of Family in 2i.rmy. \
The Wilson family of Greenville N.
C.. is well represented in the United
States Army. Dr. Bascom L. Wilson of
that city, who has been appointed a
first lieutenant in the Medical Reserve
Corps, is a brother of First Lieut. Dur
ward S. Wilson, 13th Infantry; First
Lieut. William P. Wilson, coast artil-!
levy; First Lieut. Frank W. Wilson I
Medical Corps, and Cadet Carlisle B.'
Wilson, a member of the second class
at West Point.
Miss Wilson Loses Jewels.
NEW YORK, September 4.?Miss Mar
garet Wilson, daughter of the Presi
dent, has reported the loss of a hand
bag containing money and jewels from
an automobile in which she Journeyed
to Shadow Lawn, Long Branch, N. J.,
for the notification ceremonies Satur
day. She offered a reward for the bag's
return.
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Senate:
Met at 11 a.m.
Resumed debate on emergency
revenue bill.
Conference -of leaders sets ad
journament of Congress for Wed
nesday.
Horniet
Met at noon.
Appointed conferees on general
deficiency bill.
F ?
Washington to Have Separate
institutions for Male and
Female Prisoners.
ALL TO BE IN CHARGE
OF WORKHOUSE HEAD
Enlargement of Accommodations at
Occoquan Under New Arrangement
to Take About Two Years.
Washington is to have the most
complete and modern penal sys
tem of any city in the United
States, according to announce
ment by District officials of plans
today to build an entirely separate
institution for the care of woman
prisoners, which will occupy a
portion of the reformatory tract
at Lorton, Va.
Approval has been Rivet) the plans by
the penal commission, consisting of
Commissioner Newman, Justice Staf
ford -awl John Joy Edson, and actual
work on the buildings will start within
a few months.
When completed the system will com
prise the workhouse or farm for the
care of short-term male prisoners oc
cupying an eleven-hundred-acre tract
at Occopuan; the reformatory for long
term male prisoners, which is to oc
cupy an adjoining tract comprising
1,500 acres, and the female department
in which women sentenced to both long
and short terms will be cared for.
The three Institutions will come un
der the general supervision of William
H. Whlttaker. head of the workhouse,
whose work in planning and develop
ing that institution from a wilderness
tract has attracted much attention.
Over each institution, however, will he
a separate head, with the female de
partment under the immediate super
vision of a woman director.
Arrangement Under New Flan.
Under the new arrangement women
will not be sentenced to Occoquan, and
the quarters now used by them will be
converted into canning factories, which
will supply food for all three institu
tions. It is estimated that the new
female department will be in operation
within two years.
Approximately 200 long-term prison
ers who now are in the federal prisons
at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., and At
lanta, Ga., will be brought to Wash
ington by October 15, according to the
present plans of Supt. Whittaker, and
put to work on the reformatory proj
ect Temporary quarters for their ac
commodation are now being erected.
By utilizing workhouse labor Mr.
Whittaker lias put in an eight-inch
water main to the reformatory site
and established connections for elec
tric service Just as soon as the fed
eral prisoners arrive they will be put
to work on the industrial railroad be- >
ing constructed from the wharves on
Occoquan creek, through the work
house and reformatory proportles to
the Washington Southern railway. It
ta estimated that the building of this
road will require from eighteen months
to two years. , ,
While the railroad is under construc
tion it Is planned to build also the per
manent quarters for female prisoners,
with the view of having both projects
finished within two years. At the end
nf this oerlod, when materials and aup
n be easily imported, work will
(Continued on Fourth Pace.)
Log Cabin Where He Was
Bom Gift of Lincoln
Farm Association.
ENDOWMENT FUND,$50,000,
AND TITLE TO PROPERTY
President Wilson Accepts the Home
stead in Behalf of the Nation and
Makes Eloquent Address.
HODGEXVILLE, Ky? Sep
tember 4.?Standing' before the
log cabin in which Abraham Lin
coln was born, now housed in a
magnificent memorial structure,
President Wilson today, in behalf
of the t nited States, accepted the
Lincoln homestead, acquired by
popular subscription through the
Lincoln Farm Association. The
President made his trip to Hod
genville wholly one of tribute to
the memory of Lincoln, declining
all invitations ts make speeches
in the political campaign.
President Wilson arrived here
at 10:40 o'clock.
Thousands at the Ceremonies.
Many thousands of persons made the
pilgrimage to Hodgrenville today by
train, in automobiles, afoot and in
horse-drawn conveyances to be present
at the ceremonies.
As President Wilson's special train
passed through Louisville early this
morning he was greeted by a crowd of
several thousand persons. They surged
about the railroad station and cheered.
The President today expressed great
Pleasure over the receptions accorded
him by large crowds, which applauded
at every stop yesterday and last night.
It was his first touch of campaigning
this year and he liked it. West Vir
ginia and Kentucky cave him a very
I warm welcome.
I w?i ''refenfS special train were
Mrs \\ ilson. Secretary Tumult}-, Dr. C
T Grayson, the White House physi
cian: Sena tors Williams and Newlands
KXrS?fntat,Ve -Ben J"hnso". Secretary
CouUr o^e" Y?oVrkFOlk and R?be" J
ir,"?iTV ^lo,('ue"t this little house with
in this shrine is of the vigor of democ
?n?i' exclaimed the President, as he
spoke of Lincoln as exemplifying the
American 8pir t as showi?B the h? ?
which men of lowly birih may attain
"uarC..n?,t worthy to stand here"
said he unless we ourselves be i'n
deed and in truth real democrats and
servants of mankind, ready to give
our very lives for the freedom an.) jus
tice and spiritual exaltation of the
great nation which shelters and nur
tures us.
Nearly a Century of Neglect.
After suffering the vicissitudes of
neglect and decay for nearly a hundred
years the cabin, once in the possession
of a traveling showman, is back on its
original site, sheltered within the walls
of a magnificent granite memorial hall
Accompanying the title to the farm and
cabin is an endowment fund of $r,0 000
for the maintenance of the grounds and
the memorial hall.
(Jen. John B. Castleman of Louisville
a man Abraham Lincoln once stood'
ready to save when he was in danger
of being condemned to death by a Fed
eral court-martial, introduced former
Gov. Joseph V.. Kolk of Missouri, pres
ident of the Lincoln Farm Association
the first speaker at the ceremonies at
which the title was transferred.
A Plea for Self-Consecration.
A plea that Americans of the present
day consecrate themselves to maintain
the Americanism of Lincoln inviolate
was made by former Gov. Folk.
"This country has produced many
men whose names have emblazoned the
pages of history, but no name is dear
er than that of the simple and sublime
Lincoln, who literally sprang from this
soil to become the mightiest of the
mighty. His birthplace was as lowly
as that of the Man of Galilee, whom lie
resembled so much In the sorrows he
knew, the burdens he bore and the love
of humanity he manifested. This crude
cabin, preserved in this magnificent
marble mausoleum, is consecrated by
the life of the man who here came into
the world. No poet's fancy, no dream
I ?St"c*lon' cari equal the emerging: from
this humble hut of extreme poverty of
one whose steps were destined to shake
the world, and whose mission was to
rededicate a united nation to the cause
of freedom."
Former Gov. Folk was followed by
Senator Williams, who took as his sub
ject "Abraham Lincoln and the South "
The presentation of the deed of gift
to the Lincoln homestead was made bv
Robert J. Collier of New York. Secre
tary of War Baker was on the program
to make the speech of acceptance The
final address in connection with the
ceremonies was made by President Wil
son, who followed Secretary Baker
President Wilson spoke as follows:
Cradle of a Great Man.
No more significant memorial could
have been presented to the nation than
this. It expresses so much of what is
singular and noteworthy in the his
tory of the country; it suggests so
many of the things that we prize most
highly in our life and in our system of
government. How eloquent this little
house within this shrine is of the vigor
of democracy! There is nowhere in
the land any home so remote, so hum
ble, that it may not contain the power
of mind and heart and conscience to
which nations yield and historv sub- i
mits its processes. Nature piys no '
tribute to aristocracy, subscribes to no !
creed of caste, renders fealty to no
monarch or master of any name or
kind. Genius is no snob. It does not
run after titles or seek by preference
the high circles of society, it affects
humble company as well as great. It
pays no special tribute to universities
or learned societies or conventional
standards of greatness, but serenely
chooses its own comrades, its own
haunts, its own cradlo even, and its
own life of adventure and of training
Here is proof of it. This little but
was the cradle of on* of the great
sons of men. a man of singular de
lightful. vital genius who presently
emerged upon the great stage of the
nation's history, gaunt, shy. ungainly
but dominant -and majestic, a natural
ruler of men, himself inevitably the !
central figure of the great plot. No
(Continued on third p^e.) " j
NEW LAWS EFFECT
ON CARRIERS SOUGHT
Senator Reed Offers Resolu
tion for I. C. C. to Investigate
and Report in December.
PRESIDENT SIGNS BILL
ON SHORT STOP HERE .
Brotherhood Leaders Not Present,
But Four Will Receive
Each a Fen.
Senator Reed of Missouri today intro
duced a resolution to authorize the In
terstate commerce commission to in
vestigate the effect of the eight-hour
day law on the co?t of operation of
railroads and to report to Congress in
December.
The resolution will be called up for
consideration tomorrow.
President Signs the Bill.
The Adamson elght-hour-day bill, ex
acted from Congress by the railroad
brotherhoods as the price of callingr off
the nation-wide strike ordered for to
day, was signed by President Wilson in
his private car yesterday morning at
the L'nion station, where he stopped on
his way from Shadow Lawn, N. J., to
Hod gen vi lie, Ky.
That there may be no question as to
the legality of the measure as a re
sult of it having been signed on Sun
day. the President will affix his signa
ture attain upon his return to Washing
ton tomorrow.
How long peace shall reign as* a re
sult of the bill apparently is dependent
upon developments in the proposed
move to test the constitutionality of
the act. Should the railroads take no
action, but await the beginning of an
investigation of the workings of the
eight-hour day by the special commis
sion for which the measure provides,
the brotherhoods will remain inactive.
The employes' leaders declare, how
ever. that should the law be held un
constitutional. and the railroads at
tempt to restore the ten-hour day on
their lines, a strike will follow prompt
ly.
Krotherhood heads in a circular letter
to their members yesterday made no
comment on the measure as passed.
They merely pointed out that it would
not become effective until January 1,
and that many things might occur be
tween now and then which would
change materially any suggestions or
comment they might make.
Brotherhood Men Not Present.
None of the brotherhood leaders wit
nessed the signing of the bill. They
had expected, according to tentative
arrangements made by Secretary Wil
son Saturday night, to be present, but
the President decided to attend to the
business at the railroad station, and
newspaper correspondents gave them
their first information abo6t it.
The four pens used by the President
in signing the bill?one for each syllable
of his name?will be presented to the
four brotherhood heads, A. B. Garret
son. W. G. Lee, W. S. Carter and W. 8.
Stone, after being used for resigning
the bill.
No ceremony attended the signing
yesterday. It originally had been
planned that the President should go
to the White House, but this was
changed, and instead, Rudolph Forster,
assistant secretary to the President,
took the bill to the train. Near the
car window a group of trainmen in
their overalls paused in their work
long enough to watch the President
write his name. An engineer, passing
on a yard engine, celebrated the occa
sion with several prolonged blasts of
his whistle
While at the station the President
also signed several commissions and
executive papers, and sent Secretary
Tumulty to the home of Majority Lead
er Kern of the Senate to urge that the
Senate pass the Webb bill, passed Sat
urday by the House, designed to per
mit American linns to utilize common
selling agencies abroad without violat
ing the Sherman anti-trust law.
Later the President and Mrs. Wilson
took an automobile ride about the city.
During their absence the private car
was attached to a special train carry
ing guests of the Lincoln Farm Asso
ciation. hound for Hodgenville to par
ticulate in the exercises incident to the
transfer of the log cabin in which
Abraham Lincoln was born to the fed
eral government today, at which time
the President will make an address.
Planned to Strike August 20.
It developed that the brotherhoods be
fore being summoned to Washington by
President Wilson three weeks ago had
agreed to call a strike effective August 20.
The orders they drafted were used when
the strike finally was set for Labor day.
After having been printed in preparation
for the proposed strike on August 20 they
were locked in a vault in New York. De
cision a week ago last Saturday to order
a strike the following day. when the ma
jority of the committee of 640 were leav
ing for their homes, was followed by a
hasty trip to New York by two represent
atives of the brotherhood. The strike
date. September 4. was filled in with a
rubber stamp, but the original date of
the call. August 14, was not changed.
A circular letter, drafted by W. G. Lee
and giving the complete details of ne
gotiations since last August 1, as well
as a copy of the Adamson bill, were
mailed to all members of the brotherhood.
Messages calling off the strike sent
from here Saturday night by the rail
road brotherhood heads were in a new
code, copies of which were mailed to all
the general chairmen last Wednesday.
This was done to fool "spies" and
"traitors," it was explained. At the
brotherhood headquarters it was ex
plained that some of the chairmen
probably would not receive their codes
before the hour set for the strike, and
that \t would be necessary to advise
them in uneoded dispatches of the sit
uation.
All of the brotherhood leaders have
been taking it for granted that their
chairman-would accept newspaper an
nouncements of what had happened,
and postpone local walk-outs until the
new codes could arrive or they could
exchange messages with Washington.
None of the officials now here think
there will be any difficulties other than
of the most temporary character.
Leaders Are Congratulated.
Hundreds of telegrams came to the
brotherhood leaders at their hotel yes
terday and today. Most of them were
congratulatory. One or two were from
locals which had received no notice
that the strike was off, so in some few
far away sections of the country tem
porary difficulties were looked for.
After completing the work of notify
ing, Chairman W. G. Lee, head of the
trainmen's brotherhood, left for his
home in Cleveland. The other three
brotherhood heads will leave either to
night or tomorrow. Railroad execn*
jives called here by the Present have
