In Philadelphia -
Oemorning papor Carries am rauch Pad-r
2.AA PhUai m h erhants KOW"a tmi 6A .wawv rs
that th vorn paper is the logical ad- VIt b m m obk1 f o
NO "71F13 RAII~Paper?
vertising _ ANDm T , WEeWT Dhe yo. arMOrDAaY IS asCENT.
NO. 3609. WEATER-FAIR AND WARNM WASINGMTON.--. . MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, *1916. ONE CENT.
Al LIES SWE
BACK A
Take 2,000 Prisoners in Re
newed Drive on Four
Mile Front.
M3y the Iternatteual News Service
London, Sept- 3.-"The big push"
the allies on the Somme is once mo
in full swing.
It was set in motion again at noc
today, when, in one of the most rap
and best organized assaults yet wi
nessed in the Picardy campaign, t)
French and British pushed their fin
forward in an irresistible onru:
against the German position on a froi
of more than six miles north of t
river Somme. The lion share w,
achieved by the French. but the Britis
too, gained considerable and Importai
ground.
The net strategic result of the day
battle to that the Franco-British line hi
been straightened out considerably at
that the French now stand at the vel
outskirts of Comblee, the Important ral
way town to hold which the Germai
have concentrated the pick of the Kaiser
troops and the most powerful guns.
battle of unprecedented ferocity in at
in progress on the whole front. In d,
tail, the day's results are:
The French captured by storm ti
fortified villages of Leforest. east o
Maurepas, and Clery-Sur-Somme. hol
ing both against violent German count,
onslaughts. They took the whole Gie
man trench system north of LeForoF
along the road to Combles. carr, in2 1
r i the outskirts of that town. The
pushed ahead to tjhe east at sire
points between LeForest ard Clery, th,
adding to the menace of Peronne fro
the north.
They took more than .,s unwound
prisoners.
The British on their part captured
last the whole of the long and bitter:
fought-for village of Guillemont. Ti.(
took part of the village of Ginchy.
the northeast. and gained further gromt
.-t th. Xlii-Mo u-t Farim Several hi
(l-1 prisoners w ire I,- 'hi- n.
At Verdun the day developed a series i
-i-e made Aani At sundown the figh
n '_ ".. I!: -, i a with the litn-st si
cn'ce. The French war office In its nig
"own princes infantry gained a foo
holi in a salient in t0- Freowh in.
Van, I'hapltre. where tho- i-rrani a
Trima Io break through twAard "c
S-euvile, the last biit mos t p..wiful bL
iI, - 1 rating theti rom Verdi
This German success was counter-be
svo ral tien-i. east of Fieur% villc
and part of the crest dominating bo
'leury ind the Thiaumont field work
sel'sa, prtoner., including five of
T . it, *' th- Somtii. frnt we
h o i, a' rial engagements
" ii- < i IV inh destroyed three Ge
m ,ann ih*c and damaged four other
TP-s of th.- British machines Is a,
!rii te. I
I- -n -h brought down four Germs
.eroiplanes on the Somme front and
the V-rdn sr-a.
CALL OFF RESORT CARNIVAL,
Ocean 4 ity Ministers Protest Board
walk Dauring.
'e ~ity. N . J.. Sept. 3-Because
iniber of young rpople who were t
take an active part in the affair has
e't for their homes in Philadelphi;
It is claimed, the carnival planned f<
tonight in the boardwalk by tt
toardwalk Business Men's Associatic
wvais callei off Thursday. According I
the arrangements, there was to has
heen dancing. This arouqed the Indio
nation of many ministers, and at tt
close of an illustrated lecture in tb
inditoriun on the i-amop grounds Fr
Inv night Rev. James F, rake, one f
fie founder, of Ocean City. denounice
the idea and said Mayor Champion ha
forbidden the dancing.
Some of the boardwalk husiness me
said today that had they teen awai
of this opposition they probably wol
ave gone on with the carnival.
ANOTHER ISLAND FOR SALE.
iieach .oman Wants Some Anee
emu to Buy it.
P'hladiairi.i niept. 3.-There is a
fectly beautiful little isle in the Pacilf
Ocean that is offered for sale throus
the Philadelphia Chamber of Commere
and unless some far-seelin: busineess ia
w hose philanthropy can be guided in
r-hasing this ibland. this country ia
he humiliated by reading some day thi
.lanan has purchased this little obstru
tion in the oceon or that Germany hi
rdanted her fing or it. regardless of it
Monroe Doctrine.
Madame L. Rueck--Vallarino, a Pit
rislan. who owns the island, writes I
the chamber of commerce to say thi
'T.a Gobernridor.'' the name of her iar
rossession. is five miles long and fo
wide, and within the contour of ti
-hores there are six beautiful lakes au
four villages.
CAN'T QUARANTINE GOSPEL.
Pastor otiles Health Akuthorttil
CrIlda Ca come.
F"oyleatowi. Pa.. Sept. .--Rev. M
Gayman. of the Doylestown Mennonil
Church. has notified County J-ealth Ir
spector Iir I. Swartz Plymire that h
church would not co-operate with tl
health authorities; that he was simpl
cornmissioned to preach the Word<
God, and that if children under 1
years of -age should attend service 1
would not prevent thetm.
To enforce the health regulator
the health authorities will station
guard at ihe church on Sunday an,
-prohibit children under 16 from attent
ing any service.
CIGARETTE CAUSES PANIC.
Cry et Fire Utaspedes Crewdi
Caaden.
Philadelphia, Pa.. Sept. 3-Thot
sands of persons hurrying to trair
for seashore resorts in the Camde
terminal of Pennsylvania Rtalros
were thrown into a panic when
lgted cigarette dropped into son
ofly waste started a small fire.
When a tiny wisp of smoke wa
seen coming up from the ' floor sorr
one yelled "Firer" Immediately thet
ws a rush fog eits and down tk
EP FOES
LONG SOMME
Greek Ruler Comes
Out for the Allies
(By International News Service)
London, Monday, Sept. 4
e The Daily Chronicle prints a
dispatch from Athens assert
ing that King Constantine is
d understood to have expressed
himself in favor of Greece
abandoning her neutrality in
favor of the allies.
h The dispatch says that
It Greece has officially accepted
e all demands of the allies.
~st
it
ALLIES DIRECT
d
GREEK AFFAIRS
Order Restored in Athens by
Stern Military Measures.
I By the International News servleg)
London. Sept. 3.-The entente is act
:ng with a strong hand in Greece.
And, under the directing influence of
the allied diplomats and military com
inanders, order already is emerging
from the chaos of the last few weeks.
d Among the stern measures taken
by the allied mInisters at Athens are
tthe following:
1. A demand has been presented to
the Greek government that the opera
ti on of the Greek mails and tele
d graphs must be placed in the hands
of the entente.
- The diplomatic and other repre
sentatives of the central empires and
their allies raust be expelled from
Greece.
3. The harbor of Piraeus has been
It practically taken over hy the allied
fleet. The wireless station, the only i
ieans by which Greece can communi
cite with the outside world. ha, beenI
Seized. The harbor was dragged and
sumarine, nets laid, with the result,
rt that a (;erman submarine was cap-,
I-tured. 1
nt 4. It i probable that the entente
will tike over Piraeus as a naval and
food supply base.
k ,In theirf campaign of expulsion
e a number of German and Austrian
h agents in Athens already have been
arrested.
As a result of these measures it is
reported from Athens the Greek Sov
e ernment and Venizelists are nearing
na compromise by which the future at
titide of the nation will be decided.
It is not expected that Greece will
enter the war, but that an attitude of
benevolent neutrality toward the en
n tente powers will be scrupulously ob
n served, the allies being granted all
rights and liberty of action on Greek
territory.
- RUSSIANS AGAIN DRIVE
: WESTWARD IN GALICIA
e Teutons Fighting Hard to Check In
"; vaders Before Leniberg.
e ! (By the International News Service.)
e London, Sept. 3-The Russian drive
!against Lemberg. capital of Galicia, is
faain in full swing.
Evidently determined to pierce the
d heart of the Austrian crown land be
fore they have to face winter as a
powerful ally of the Teuton defense,
the Czar's Galician arrales have re
d sumed their offensive with extreme
vigor anI the last twenty-four hours
saw some violent fighting at each of
the three vital parts of the Lemberg
front. in which the bayonet played the,
leading role. tp to late this evening
- no substantial success had been won
bv the attackers. They were met
everywhere by a wall of steel and
iron, the Teutons having used the last
h few weeks to reorganize and strength
en themselves for the supreme test.
Battles are raging in the direction
of Z1nczow and Halicz. says the offi
al report tonight from Petrograd.
The German war noffice rtatement
speaks of loal combats cast and
snutheast of Brzezany.
FOES HIT ROUMANIA AT
VITAL STRATEGIC POINT
d -
r. ify tihe Interational News %ersiee.)
Lonion. Sept ::. -Germany and BliIga
d ri, rushing to the aid of their hard
pressed ally, Austria-Hungary. have
struck at Roumania's most vital spot
the Dobrudja, that narrow neck of terrf
tory lying between the 'arpathian-Al
pine range and the Black Sea.
Their invasion is under way. Striking
at a spot, the exact locality of which
was not made public, a German-Rulga
e rian army has crossed the Dobrudja,
b orders between lbhetDanube and the
R lack Sea.
e The movement, if carried to success.
ynot only would cut off Roumanian an
f mies fighting with the Russian in the
6 north from those engaged with the Aus
e trians in the Transylvanian Alps. but
would cut off from the rest of Rtouma
s nia that entire strip some 180 miles in
a length which lies between Transylvania
d and Bessarabia. The invasion also holds
- menace to Contaniza, Roumnania's prin
cipal pdrt on the Bliack Sea.
JEWS IN FRONT FIEING LINE.
*Their Position in Roeaena Hard
Nisee Eintry lnte Wa.
Rerlin, Sept. .-The fate of the Jews is
5 Roumiania is described in a pitiable tale
nI i. the Berliner Tageblatt from its special
d errespondent, Leo Lederer. who was'
a among the last to leave Bucharest a few
e hours before the declaration of war,
Lederer deelares orders were issued that
a Jewish soldiers be placed in the first line.
e The situation of the Jews, he says, will
e he particularly hard if. as expected, the
s Russians take over the directlon of Rotu
manas meller
EXPLORERS SAVED
BY SHACKLETON,
Antarctic Leader Rescues 22
Comrades From Icy Prison.
(By the Internattenal News Service.)
Punta Arenas, Chile, Sept. 3.-Sir Ernest
3hackleton arrived here today from Ele
)hant Island, having rescued his twenty
:w comrades who were marooned there
md bringing them back with him.
The explorer, with the men whose lives'
ie had striven so persistently to save.,
nade port on the steamer Yelcho, on
which he had sailed from Punta Arenas
in August 26. on his third dash to the
-ellef of the members of his party, whom;
ie had been obliged to leave behind him
n the polar regions.
Shackleton reports that all are well.
In the adventurous career of Lieut. Sir,
Ernest Shackleton. R. N., perhaps no
dingle explorer will stand out In such a
rallant light as this climax of his dog-'
red and undaunted efforts to extricate his
levoted followers from their icy prison.
Even If In the future he should achieve
ils ambition of reaching the south pole,
t is possible that his best fame In history
will rest upon his success In repairing
without sacrinice of life the misfortunes
>f an expedition which he himself ac
inowledged to have been a failure.
Since his arrival at the Falkland Is-I
ands, on May 31. with a picked handful
if his men, after thrilling hardships and
serils In an open boat, he has not rested
L single instant from preparation and
wrsonal endeavors to go back for the
yulk of his followers, marooned of neces
Sity on an lee-bound Island swept by the
torms of the southern winter.
That Shackleton and his little boat crew
would get through seemed sufficiently re
note. That their twenty-two comrades
in Elephant Island would ever see civil
zation again seemed even more so.
MILLCOX TO STAY AS
G.o0, P. CAMPAIGN HEAD
3oth He and Hughes Deny Rumor of
Resignation.
lly %% ilLIAM HO1T.
#Internationls News serviee.1
St. Louis. Sept. 3.-Republican National
Thairman Willcox Is not going to resign.
Both Mr. Willcox and Charles E. Hughes
-egard that story as absurd. They sai4
;o today. Moreover, though the fact that
much a rumor could start Is indicative
>f the condition of the Republican cam.
)aign, both Mr. Hughes and Mr. Will
ox are perfectly satisfied with the ex
sting state of affairs.
Mr. Hughes will embark upon a new
itage of the campaign tomorrow when he
'esumes his t9ur at Nashville. Tenn.
With the speech of acceptarce of Presi
lent Wilson now on record, the Republi
an nominee believes that he has come
hing to shoot at and with the address
n the Coliseum last right as a starter,
ie will now deliver a series of addresses
n which point by point the claims of
'our friends on the other side" will be
answered.
Mr. Hughee believes that a perfectly
Cood case can be made out for the Repub
iean cause on the basis of Wilson's
,peech of acceptance. Ills close advisers
'eel that he struck a good blow last
Iight when he demonstrated that he had
>een in favor of child labor legislation
'ght years ago. Also that his remarks
mn workmen's compensation and the
>ther potshots he took at the Democratic
'ecord made a deep impression.
He plunges into another border State
omorrow-Tennessee, of which the Re-i
>ublicans have hopes.
SAYS HUGHES WILL
SWEEP MIDDLE WEST
Wedill McCormick Prophesies Land
slide for G. 0. P. Candidate.
ily the Internstiesial News Service.)
New York. Sept. 1.-Medill McCormick,
ormer chief of the Illinois Progressives,
>rophesied today that Mr. Hughes will
iweep the Middle West.
lie also asserted that wherever women
ossess the right to vote the Republican
andidate will secure the bulk of it.
Mr. McCorinick, who started for Maine
onight. said: "Reports have been made
'o me from all over the Middle West by
he best-posted politicians of all parties.
rhey agree that IllinoiS will give Hughes
it least 200.W if not more plurality. His
x"ess over Wilson may equal the 2W,000
,lurality Roosevelt 1uiired over Bryan
n 1I00.
"About 700,000 Illinois women are entitled
vote 6, 'res'dent for the first time
his year. Nearly all will vote for
Iughes.
'Practically the entire Progressive par
y in my State is lined up with the Re
ublicans behind Hughes. In other States
Ahre the party has been strong, from b0
o 00 per cent will support Hughes.
"In Indiana Republicans are working
Ike brothers with the Progressives. This
a true of them in Kansas. Nebraska,
'I chigan. Minnesota and adjacent States.
"My advices from California are that'
lie Republicans will carry it by a record
yreaking majority. The nomination of
Jov. Johnson for the United States Sen
tte has clinched that."
FIRST NEW PARALYSIS
CASE IN THREE DAYS
The lirst new case of infantile pa
alysis in the District in the last three
lays was reported yester'day morning
o the health office. The victim is
3urgess Hummer. 3 years old, of 8251
F'ourth street northwest.
This makes a total of ten cases un
ier treatment in the District, with
wenty-seven cases since July 1. There
uave been four deaths since the be
tinning of the plague. During Au
rust more cases were reported than
luring the month of July.
Lovemaking Blamed for Loan.
Evansville, Ind.. Sept, 3.--Miss Ma
nie Hoffman. of St. Louis. caused a
eceiver to be appointed here for the
steamer Golden Fleece. operated in
he Evansville-Golconda trade. Miss
sioffman alleges that through system
tc lovemaking Capt. Harry Davis
tot $4,900 from her to be used in the
uilding of the boat. She claims a
,hird interest and aks the be's 4e
Telegraph Tips
Carteret. N. J., Sept. L.-Josep
Lambert, of Elisabeth, N. J., fiagma
on a Jersey Central freight train, wa
killed Saturday when he was run ove
by a car. He leaves a wife and so
in Rockaway, L. I.
Trenton. N. J., Sept. 3.-The Stat
public utility commissioti has fixec
Monday, September 25, for a hearin
on a petition presented by Jersey Cit
and other large cities asking that
lower scale of electric power charge
be fixed for them.
Sea Girt, N. J., Sept. 3.-New Jerse
wo n, members of the New Jerse
SoldierK' Relief League, have raise
19,961 since June 27 to be used in re
lieving the wants of Guardsmen fror
this State now at Douglas. Ariz., an
ttiw;r ainilies who were left at home
Flanders, N. J., Sept. 3.-When Mah
Ion Malnes was cutting hay near her
his horses ran Into a nest of yellow
jackets. Three horses ran away an
Malnes was thrown under their fee'
and then the mower ran over hin
His only injuries were a few scratches
Minneapolis, Minn.. Sept. 3.-All of
fleers, with one exception, were re
elected at the closing session of th
American National Retail Jeweleri
annual convention Saturday. (. it
Damuth, of Redfield, S. D.. was electe
treasurer, succeeding A. L. Thoma, o
Piqua. Ohio.
Snake Hill. N. J., Sept. 3.-Search I
being made for the relatives of Sam
uel Sinclair Sweeting. 67 years ni<
who died on Thursday in the alms
house here. He wandered into the in
stitution a few days before and di-i
without leaving any clew to his fam
ily.
Trenton. N. J., Sept. 3.-Receipts fror
motor vehicles for the month of Augus
Jetted the State $73,,6. which was a gal
of =33,104 over last year. The total re
ceipts for the eight months of the yea
were $1,2000 as against 81,062,000 for th
same period last year.
Boston, Mass.. Sept. 3.-Mrs. Phebe Ny
Ryder, 92 years old, a descendant of Di
Samuel Fuller, the first physician in th
Plymouth colony, died at Medford Fri
day. She was the widow of Col. Godfre
Ryder, who fought in the civil war an
had lived in Medford fifty years.
San Salvador, Sept. '.-Complaint hav
ing been made iy American merchant
that ten pounds of coffee were missin
fron many bags shipped front here, a
investigation showed that employes of
commercial agency here had stolen coffe
worth li,teui peeos. The men accused o
the theft escaped.
Annapolis. Md., Sept 3.-Succeedin
i.,ut .Comnander Thomas R. Kurtz
who has been detached from the loca
station and made executive officer o
the battleship Illinois, Lieut. Commant
der John Downes has been assigned a
personal aide to Capt. Edward W. Eberle
superintendent of the Naval Academy.
Mhila. Sept. 1.-Gov. Gen. Francis Bur
ton Harrison has sustained the authori
ties of the General hlospital in their con
flict with the employrs, which eulminat
ed in a strIke of the nurses and in I
small riot. At the suggestion of the hos
pital officials the governor has ordere4
Director Colson, of the civil service, t
investigate the dispute.
Mount Kisco, N. Y., Sept. 3.-Sixty hea
of valuable Jersey cattle from the Isl
,f Jersey have arrived here, imported de
spite the handleaps raised by war corn
litions, for Robert C. Van Cortlandt, a
summer resident. Edmund Butler was i1
harge of the task of bringing the ariste
ratic cattle over. Four calves were borr
,t the voyage.
Poughkeepsie. N. Y., Sept. 3.-Joh
Dooley and Lloyd Keleher, of the Bronx
on a canoe trip to Croton Point, cam
upon an empty canoe half filled wit
water otpposite the dock of the propert
of Mrs. kinley J. Shepard Saturday. Th
craft e.nt'ined part of a camper's out
fit and it is feared the occupant. wer
drowned Ty the swell from a night boas
on the TInrison.
Cleveland. Ohio, Sept, 3.-Curtis Goa
nell. of Muncie. Ind.. famous as a rac
driver on the Grand Circuit, died her
Saturdav from injuries suffered at Nort
Ran:Ilt track last week Mr. Gosne
w as thrown while working out :. hot
pled Pacer and never recovered cor
sciou:ness.
Philadelphia. Sept. .!.-embers of tIh
American Pharmaceutical Facuilties. rer
resiting tifty colleges of tiarniacy I
the United States, met today and platine
for the enactment of legislation to stain
lardize the requirements for entrane
Into the pharmaceutical professio
throughout this country.
Hlagerstown, Mid., Sept. :-hlist)
tng for black bass ink the Potomac 11i,,i
below Williamsport. James Thatch
one of anl outing party from acartin
burg. hooked a large carp that piil,
him headlong froim the boat into d#e
water. Ie v-s .lnved from drowning b,
his sister-in-law.
1:1 Paso. Tex.. Sept. 7--One iillio
five hundred thousand pounds of flour an
a supuly of hams and bacon sufficient 1
last the troops now in this district fot
months have been purchased from loon
dealers by Maj. William Flliott. distri
depot quartermaster.
Philadelphia. Sept. 3.-Within the las
few months 100,000 mattresses have bee
condemned in this city as unsanitary at,
disease breeding, and scores of deale
and manufacturers have been prosecute
for violatitng a State law in stuffing the
mattresses with materials that are ur
clean.
Newv York. Sept. 7.--Teorty-eight pei
sorns were killed in New York City las
month by vehieles. accordinig to the rt
port of the National Highways Protectiv
Society. Of these, thirty-eight were vic
time of automobiles and nineteen wer
children. Trolley cars killed six and ws
gons four, and of those six were chi:
dren.
Bethlehem. N. IT.. Sept. 3.-The ridge
of thte Presidential range, including th
lofty sutmmit of Mount Washington, glow
ed with redfire tonight in honor of Neu
Hampshire's old htome week celebration.
El Paso. Texas, Sept. 3.-Lino Ponci
formerly a colonel under Orosco, brougit
to Juarez today from Cassas Granden
was sent to Chihuahua City for trial o
a charge of plotting against the Carranz
government.
Berlin (by Wireless to Saywilie), Sep
l.-Ideut. Banfleld, an Austrian aviator o
the Austro-Italia~n front, has been espe
cily mentioned by Emperor Franel
Joseph for meritorious conduct in th
aviation corps, says a message fros
Vienna to the Ov=mn=n= ara... ,aw.
AIR RAIDERS8O
LITTLE DAMAGE
Two Killed, Thirteen Injured
in Attack on London.
I(By the latera'.tieaal News yervice.)
London. Sept. 3.-While reports of the
damage caused by last night's air raid
are still incomplete. Sir John French,
commander of the home forces, today an
nounced that from information at hand
he is able to state that the results were
eniirely disproportionate to the number
of airships engaged.
Reports of csaaities at hand show that
two persons were killed and thirteen in
Jured. Twenty-five houses and some cot
tages in London were damaged, but no
military point was hit. A gas works was1
set on fire, accounting for the early re
ports of flames caused in London.
Only three of the thirteen airships en
gaged in the raid succeeded in reaching
London. No lives were lost in the met
ropoltan district. Indeed, the raiders
. failed to reach the center of the metropo
lis. all the damage belfig done in the out
skirts.
Of the three ships which reached Lon
I don one was shot down in flames by anti
f aircraft guns and aeroplanes. It fell in a
wrecked condition near Enfield, at a vil
lage named Cuffley. Experts of the war
office plan an attempt to reconstruct parts
- of it.
Half burned bodies of the crew were
found scattered around the wreckage of
the engines. A great part of the airship
had been consumed by flames.
The casualty list is not complete, the
war office promising additional details as
soon as reports are received from some of'
the country districts where bombs were
dropped.
The fact that the raid, which was the
largest as regards number of Zeppelins,1
yet attempted by the Germans, is attrib
uted to the fact that the new regulations
for light control worked to perfection
forcing the invaders to grope in the dark
ness, where previously they had had well
lighted paths to the capital.
YES, 'TWAS COOL, BUT
1 TODAY'LL BE WARMER
Mr. Mercury Went 'Way Down at!
10 o'Clock
The District was hit by a cool wave
yesterday, eiding the mercury down
to 15f degrees at 6 o'clock in the morn
ing. The warmest part of the day
was at 4:30 o'clock in the afternoon.,
when the thermometer read 76 de
grees, but a general drop in tempera
ture throughout the Central Atlantic
States graduanly cooled the atmos.
phere to 65 degrees at 10 o'clock last
night and made walking without
wraps unpleasant.
Washington pleasure-seekers should
have nio fear of a cold Labor Day, be
cause the Weather Bureau predicts a
fair and warmer day. The weather
will undoubtedly remain settled for
the greater part of the week, but
overcast conditions are promised for
Tuesday.
The lake regions are experiencing a
drop in temperature with movements
in this direction, and if many more,
cool days greet Washington Palm
Beachers the light stuff will go on the
clothes closet hook.
Weather Bureau report: 6 a. m., 54:
8 a. m.. 60; 19 a. M., 66: 12 m.. 69; 2
p. M. 72; 4 p. m., 75; 4:30 p. m., 76; 6
p. m., 3; 8 p. m., 62; 10 p.m. 55.
EDISON WILL WORK
TO RE-ELECT WILSON
Inventor Declares Roosevelt Was His
First Choice.
--,(By the International News ser'ie.ji
Saratoga, N. Y., Sept. 3.-Thomas A
Edison, the electrical wizard, Republican,
and supporter of Theodore Roosevelt for.
.,the Pr,'sidential nomination, today an-!
nounced tha tlie would work and vote for!
Woodrow Wilson. le said:
"Not since 1S6) has any campaign made
such a direct call on simon pure Amer
caniam. The times are too serious to
talk or think in terms of Republicanism
or Democracy. Real Americans mustl
- drop parties and get down to big funda
mental principles.
"More than any other President in myl
memory. Woodrow Wilson has been faced
by tremendous problems, any of which.
decided the wrong way, would have had:
I disastrous consequences. Wilson's de
cisions so far have not got us into any
serious trouble, nor are they likely to.
"lle has given us peace with honor
This talk aboif the United States being
despised is noosense. Neutralilty is a
imighty trying tolicy, but back of it are
international laws, the rights of humanity
t and the future of civilization.
"Roosevelt vas my choice. He has had
experence and is one of the best Ameri
t cans, but the machine-controlled Republi
'an party would not have him. I am for
Woodrow Wilson."
WOMAN GIVES CHARITY
-AND LOSES POCKETBOOK
-Ady. have you got a little change'
tyou could give me?"
- A colored man was addressing Julia
s, Gardner at her home. 2026 P street north-.
- west, He had knocked at the door and
when she answered the call he unraveled
- his little hard-luck yarn.
- "I am broke, without a cent," he said.
"Can't you help me just a little?"
Her sympathy was awakened and she
gave him a dime.
3Later she discovered the absence of a
- pocketbook containing 31.50 and several
car tickets and decided that he had re
in forced the dime to that extent. She
reported the incident to the police.
.I AUSTEIA CUTS DOWN ON MEAT.
New Order Provides for' Third Meat
less Dlay.
. Berlin thy wireless to Sayvilie, L.
I.), Sept. 3.-According to a dispatcn
- from Vienna to the Overseas News.
Agency an order has been published in
athe Austrian capital introducing the
S"third meatless day." Mutton, how-I
ewer, may he enta es thi ae,
MANY FLAW!
NEW EIGH
Reads Say Traimen
Only Songht Money
The position of the railroads
since the pasage of the eight
hour law was thus outlined by
one of their foremost spokes
men:
"The brotherhoods cared lit
tle about the principle of the
eight-hour day. They wanted
more money, and that is what
Congress has atempted to give
them, although under duress.
"The brotherhoods have suc
ceeded in having the standard
yardstick shortened. It gives
them ten hours' wages for
eight hours' work. Whether
this shortening of the yard
stick is fair matters little. The
principal question is: Can
Congress compel a merchant
to give a full three feet of cloth
for a yard when it shortens
the yardstick?"
CARRANZA PUTS
BLAME ON U. S.
Expected to Charge American
Interests Financed Villa.
First Chief Carranza, it is sa, will
attempt to establish before the inter
national conmmission appointed to find
a solution to the Nlexican problei that
"Pancho" Villa and the enmies of the
Constitutionalists have bcen financed uy
unitld States capital. The move is ac
eepted as an attempt to evade respon
sibilities for indemities wih amount to
millions.
The commission will hold its first meet
ing in New York today. Secretary Lan
sing, of the State D.-partment. will be
iresent to accept eon bhaf of this gov
ernment the cr dentials of the Mexican
members. Ambassador-designate Arre
dondo will also attend the first meeting.
The subsequent deliberations will be held
in New England. probably 'tsnouth.
New Hampshire.
The State Department has -een in
formed tha' Carranza has kept a legal
force at work for months a: 'rg: the
border gathering data with which im wil
undertake to substantiate his cla.m.
The State Department regaids John
Linn Rodgers as the confidential adviser
of the American members of the com
mission.
It is generally believed at the War De
partment the withdrawal of Gen Per
shing's expedition from NIexican .sr.I will
be one of the first of Carranza's de
mands. The reports of both Gen. Per
shing and Get. Funston that maintain
ing this force below the border is no
longer a military necessIty are accepted
as meaning that the United States will
concede the point promptly.
LUTHERAN MISSIONS
BARRED FROM INDIA
Amencans Victims of Bnitish Discrim
ination, Is Charge.
pectal to Tile Wshisntnn Hr -
Baltimore. Sept l-The Luithrai Board
,f Foreign Mission of I i neraI
iynod, which hias its hn Luart. - i l
Haltimore. IS meeting with ma- y dimi
culties in its work Inin I. a - o the
restrictions which the FrlitIt g-.rn
me Y I h.a placed tu i rthic sus
pected of having a TOtome iln *
Rev. Dr. 1 . : Wot If, era th e
Loard, said th-t itw mi i ar' -Ith
Americans--ar- being helu at .-ey
lon because they <annot -; mio rlum.
and that two other i s-i' ariI.,
Americans-are now i, ii < ount- V -
(ause the British go u -m. in w i-1 rot
lve them I n IrpSsar . I'mill n i. go
to their fl-Id of religiri o rk.
T hose whir an-o get hi- tHrh i 1r
mlireision to go li k to Ini .:i-i reg
it. Trundle. of Frejriei Ald. i 1.
S (. Berger, of Quiincx. Pa. noii ha
worked for sxt-n years in tn-i,
A German nine, h, s. h s h.
h-av\ handicap i) mrny rir .
I; dia. Air Herger. i- )1 m 1 .. I,
Wolf says, comes of a famly Amerarin
for thre ir four generrti c-. b-ut th
British oflcials Ieek tu questrn hit st.
tu" as anr Ameri-an mr. be-ause of
Some retmote ancestor.
Dr. Wolf insist that Ili-, State Der-s rt
irent in WN aahingtot ha r upt theld tle
rights of the ANerican mnitrinaris
"The State Despartmrrert mr Washington.
said Dr. WVolf. ''whirr ver wec appeal to
them, merely send to the ttrittsh ibrssy
and neser protest against thie atirtid
of the British. This comprlete submiselor
to the British hais be en a great haniera
to our work in India. whiich has breen sar
rid on for setenty yers.
GARRETSON WILL TAKE
LONG VACATION AT SEA
With his fight for the eriht-hou~rr dia'
completed, A. B. Garretson, who ha,
acted as leader for the brotherhood men.
plans a unique vacation, or, which he will
start as quickly as possible.
"I have just figured out a plan,'' he
said. "by which I can ret in pe-aceI with
out seeing a single railroadi man win
knows mec or receiving a tic-ssage or 1.I
ter of any kind.
"I am going to find a srturdy square
rigger. clearing probably from the west
coast and not equipped with wireless,
board her and sa r -- n. .as ps
uible without touchig land.
"It is gring ,to . y s e
cause for almrost a - i. - ' try
it ha5 b~een imipossibto: 'r. in hrarda
train without meeting somes one whi
wantd in talkr =Im=
i FOUNDIN
T-HOUR LAW
b
Neither Side Wholly S.timl.
With Wilson's Railroad
Measure.
The eight-hour day law for ra
road employes, which was signed by
the President here yesterday, has
thrown both sides to the recent
strike controversy into coufusio,.
according to word reaching Wash
ington last night.
Nobody seems to know the real
tieaning of the law in its present
fori and a strict interpretation of
the clause which specifies that eight
hours shall constitute a work day
'for "contract labor" is erpected to cause
trouble within a short time.
The brotherhood leaders are of the
opinior that Congress may have over.
etIoppd i cottititional authority in
ixing wares. <n the other hand ad
ministration lead. ha.+ heen ined
by the railway off; al %II- .il xI et
the Prresident to k-t, his promi-e of leg.
15'tion looki:.g to a ir.- sc in freight
tes.
l-.eident Wvilson eto-pd at the tinon
"t' ier- '-st-rday mrni-nng en route
from ildow Tawn N, J . to H ogn,ille,
r . r --fu,:h t g! the- Adamnon
bt: which tstah-h an .Ight-bioor dai.
tbi-tti Janu hH-.r union -I
iotson inter-tati ra.
Tne znremons was ,-rtrn-d irn the
idnt't itt- I. _h i ..m -ral. The
a lwitne.s. w rI,, Wi ,-. John
1-.lin. .\ir- \Vii., -h.-. aI'd u
dolt 1 F*r-t', e x'. Ps lr-I--k at the
White it, . I Ta- a. ,.d i
Signmng tthe.1 nle'ii *ath i be jre
cs-rnd to 'I- at.,'hI' ! ehlfs at he
White House tomorrow,
Om Way to Litmeol Celebratl..
At 10:30 o-clock. the Pre.indit. acomn
i-ani-d ,y Mrs. WltAon and Senatr New
la ,ds, of the Ilte-rt at .-pmni.r. c Con
nIt tee. contnuid th1,. ;r, o Ken
It Iy wher- tomorrow hr wir ct Pt on
- f l th. g---rnmnt Ihe humbic
birthplace of Abraham liAn-ot The
President dalirc'I Senator N I.ands to
g, ;i-n that lhey might discuss plans
for 1ii fna-tment of the- remainder of
the h- .-lative progra:n. afT. tilig rail
roads,
Pre'ident Wilson is understood to feel
that he has plac-d )t1mself under an obb
gation to th. rai ma~l Iterests by foro
I'e he eight-hour :aw on them. Senator
Ncwlands planned to teil him that any
a itional irgislation on the subject cumg
not bt taken up at this selion. Senator
N-'wlands pointed out that the short ss
tion which heginc in December and ends
automnati-aly Im March will be very much
occupied with matters vital to the ad
ministration. - Thee Iptdea. i miettion
to appropriations, the . t1menicon bL
corrupt practicee, setntmat of the Co
lomhian treaty controversy and the Dan
ish treaty.
Tt i' ooeeives amone whom -.
tors LAPollette. Borah. Cummins. Cl. pp
.nil Norr are promi:ret. %ill t zt
the fnn- any move to increase freighL
rates or increase the membership of the
Interstate Commerce Commission
Desocrata Pestmoeltie.
The Democrats are not optimiwter o
the outlook. They consider that tie
Preident is responsible for the present
situation which confronts cnongresa, and
expect him to suggest some wa out of
tite dicu-t-. An announcement of son
de-nnite plan is expected from the White
House at soon as the Pre'ident returns
The brotherhood leaders did not express
'Ic sre t' he present at the signing
Th- eIght-hour bill They were entirel
-.Infl--d to have the President affi his
signature on sunday.
President Wilson drected Secretary 9
F orster to notify the brotherhood leaders
as soon as the hill was s:gned. Garret
s.n a comment at the time was
I try to be a good loqer. and do not
like to rub it in on the other fellow when
I wit.- All I can say is that we are verv
happy."
It was learned that the brotherhoods
wcild have been atisfIed to res-Ind the
strike order If Congress had passed the
eight-hour Ias without attempting t^ f1x
wages. The fact that congress emtab
lished a precedent for an eight-hour day
is considered the big victory.
I:11-ha Tee. ,hairman of the railca%
mtaniecrs committ. left TsahngT,
'e-terday for he he d uerters in Phils
Keths. ib. said he nad not I~sn A.
t dtermne chore th efre -t of the
Adamson law ouItbgin er .here it
o1,id end. lte ,l-ed that ie iad been
nable to find imbod- else who emid
m-,k. "hleads or to out f the meas
'I- T -- 1. 1, .- . - _nt the
r pro-- r- .r .r ... 07 nt oh
'Tr--ted by lh. Ihe,-t- t .alamitie to
1ietitral phN 1"' a few tplP
fT.- adciser- om:tt.e of the eI
o ,s. t Mnt lereted .tlI meet , New
-k -' sn earl d-\ t t,- det-nirs what
d~t. and,, ev'denTer I inl .Nr whentedj hr
I ts t -,o I 'A, n, , - - t11 - oI s thd
to ~ ~ ~ ~~i f a oua,:noairatint, and
Pnort th- rt.--t- o th r gt-hour das.
A te-ot f 1 the law u 1 h" I at icr for dim
- rn-o~n aT theI tom The railroed
retr-esentata. - wer- mT. TIemteted in
h report that Pr'-il. t \Nilson had
'TI aild It atba-it ih' remoander of
hi. program,
The .\dmoo- ii st. m s1pirn,.d at the
Iniotn 0:-to., IT aem-a' S ith any
pre-ar-raned i-ia, T. Train to which
the- lrivate c-ar une attae hed reached
Washington at 17 iS ohIk Recretary
F-orotr wais ther.- to meet the rparty and
t.il the 'r.esident Ih NH. lol aii at the
\Vt iTTouseV awilti' g h im.
.\1r. l'oct. r was Tif.need That the
It'reside-nt wa. emil steeping. The seege
t' rv Salted arcoTnd a hit. and fear~g
ilhnre ioulid h- a sellout- dela. h uteivi
hack to TT the hite Ilou,a pilad the bsl
Tn his p-ocket and returned to the sta
tion.
President Wil1.on cas aciake by thb
time and announeed that he could sigu
the meAsure as soon n. he had break
fasted, later the President and Mrs.
Wilson and Mr. Boiling took a tuoter
ride. stoppiing for a few momnenta at the
White Htous. There he met itecretsiy
Wit lion. of IIhe t'ape~rtment of Labor. whe
offer-ed oongra.tul'ations over the outromse
ofthe raiiroad .-ontrovers,.
Yesterday the brotherhood landes were
busay pteparing a cituls.r to be at hg
members. This doecunent wIll epa
the eettinent of the srke gmetto.
retreat the provIsIons of the bin.
The fifteen or so vice chairnm whoe,
maimned as representatives of the seleet
-,mmittee are leaving. W.. G. la. went
this home In Cleveland at aLh UM
and Carnter leave todam
