f
THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDEriT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL . .
TWISTY-SEVENTH YEAH
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNINO, SEPTEMBER 4, 1916
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 109
fail
I
RAID
on
mm
.KM .
, K
1 i Si
.1
FRENCH ME GROUND OVER AN Wrench and British Make Gains on Somme Front
EXTENT If FOUR MILES WHILE
EH
BRITISH CAPTUH
0 VILLAGES
(By Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
A combined attack by French and British forces on the Somme front
Sunday resulted in an important gain ot ground between the villages of
Forest and Clery, which lie to the sou th of Combles and to the east of
Maurepas, over an extent of nearly four miles. These places were occupied
by the French, while the British captured a part of the village of Ginchy
and gained total possession of Guillemont. Thus the advance of the en
tente allies is closing in on Combles, which at present is a powerfully for
tified German stronghold.
In the various attacks launched by the British and French more than
3,000 prisoners were taken, together with a large number of guns.
German positions east of the village of Fleury also were overrun by the
French who carried several trenches and organized works.
Germans returned to their attack in the Verdun sector, sending large
forces of infantry againtt the French positions at Vaux and Chapitre, and
after heavy fighting, gained a foothold in one of the French salients. At all
points apparently the fighting continues with the utmost ferocity
In the Balkans, German and Bulgarian troops already have crossed the
Dobrudja frontier, in southeastern Rumania, doubtless with the object of
preventing the advance of Russians into Bulgaria and to Constantinople.
Furions battles are in progress between Russian and Austro-German
forces in Galicia near Lemberg. Berlin reports repulse of the Russians but
Petrograd declares the Teutons have been driven from fortified positions
and that several heights have been captured.
The shooting down of a Zeppelin, one of a large number of German
raiders on the east coast of England, has caused much enthusiasm among
the British because of the indication thus given, of the efficiency of the air
defense protecting London. According to the latest reports the airships did
little damage.
Great Britain and France have sent a note to the Greek government de
manding control over the Greek posts and telegraphs and insisting upon
the deportation from Greece of agents of the central powers. Dispatches
from Athens say it is understood that the Greek government will make no
objection to the acceptances of these demands. Entente allied reports
Irom the Greek capitol intimate the early announcement of an important
change in the attitude of Greece.
Austrian artillery on the Trentino front is shelling the Italians. There
have been numerous infantry engagements but the situation is without
material change.
WON SIGNS E GHT-H
OUR BILL
HUGHES SPENDS SUNDAY
RESTING FROM CAMPAIGN
Many Prisoners Taken
PARIS, Sept. 3. The villages of
Forest and Clery-Sur-Somme and all
the Herman positions between these
two points have been captured by tne
French and Blitish in a joint attacK
:fter intense artillery preparation.
More than 20011 prisoners, as well lis
twelve cannon anil fifty machine guns,
were taken.
The official statement issued 'ov the
war office tonight, making this an
nouncement, also reported progress
for the French troops in tlic neigh
borhood of Floury, with the capture
of 300 prisoners.
! ST. IjOI.'IS. Sept. 3. Charles I
! E. Hughes siwnt Sunday resting i
1 in St. Louis and left tonight, for :
Nashille, Ter.n. He is due to i
' reach there tomorrow morning I
! and will address a night meet- '
I ing there. It will be his first i
! speech I" a southern city since i
! his nomination. .Mr. Hughes had I
I luncheon and dinner with William I
I I;. Wlllcox, republican national i
I chairman. The nominee devoted I
j r.omc time today to a perusal of I
I President W ilson's speech of ac- I
I ceptance and conferred with I
I Chairman Will'-ox over portions I
i of it. Most of the, conference, I
! however, was devoted to plan- I
I nir.g the itinerary of the second !
I trip. Mr. Hughes expects to I
I start September H. I
BITOW
SHALE MILLION
BEE
111
the
that
the
British Make Gains
LONDON, Sept. 4. The British,
with the co-operation of the French
on their right win?!, succeeded Sun
day In capturing part of the village
of C.iochv and the whole of Guille
mont, according to the official state
ment issued from general heauquar
ters late last night. They gained
fcround also east of the Moouet farm
and captured several hundred pris
oners. Repulsed With Bayonets
BERLIN, Sept. 3. Strong Russian
."Hacks' made against the Austro
Ocrman forces north of Zehorow. east
'f Lenibcrg. were repulsed in bayonet
fighting, says the off-rial statement
issued today. In the Carpathians, the
statement adds. Teuton positons on
thu Ploska heights, south of Zielnna.
were taken bv the Russians after
manv fruitless storming.
to reconsider the Greek policy.
To Exchange Commodities
PARIS, Sept. 3. An agreement lias;
been reached by Switzerland and
Germany in the dispute between
those countries .regarding the ex
change (f commodities, says
Havas correspondent at heme.
Germanv last June demanded
Ihe Swiss government permit
exportation of cotton and foodstuffs
collecle.1 by German agents statinar
that if the demand were not complied
with Germany would prohibit the
exportation of coal, iron and other
material essential for Swiss indus
tiy. Switzerland asked for time, and
Sent a delegate to Paris to confer
vith the representatives of the
entente allies. In August the German
and Swiss delegates resumed their
negotiations and it then became
known that Germany had withdrawn
her thrr-it to hold up shipments of
con I and iron destined for Switzer
land. While tbis did not entirely
satisfy the entente allies, it was a
step toward settlement
' Russian Statement
PETROGRAD. Sept. 3. (Via Lon
don). The text of the Russ.an of
fi'ial statement savs:
"Western (Russian) front In the
region of Rlea. Germans attacked our
J.ettish battalions, who drove the
enemy I ak and inflicted revere
losses,
"In !be directions of Zlott-hoff and
Hal'.oz battles are racing.
"In the retrion of Kaput mountain
and also In the region of Dornavntpa
our troops captared several h"ight3.
Th" ncmy's counter attack was re-nnK-'-d
hv our fire. Here we eap
tuied naa prisoners.
"Caucasian front In the region of
Ocnot. fierce fighting- continue. Th"
nomv has been put to flight at some
?o'nts.
"Turkish attacks In
iciioniK were renelled by our fire.
In the Iitile a-ound this village we
captured another gun.''
Germans Desperately Attack
WITH THE BRITISH ARMY IN
FF.ANCE, (via London. Sept.
Some el tails are now available con
cerning the German counter attack
on Thursday night against the Brit
ish positions beyond Delville, which
was the jr.ost desperatei attempt,
participated by the largest force and
supported by the heaviest artillery
fire that the Germans have made
since the British offensive began
The time chosen was in the midst
of a heavy rainstorm when the Brit
irh were ilrenched and their trenches
were running with water.
Against a mile and a half front,
the Germans sent torwa'd the ISOth
di ision of about 10,000 men. of
,hese it is estimated that about 2,000
men survived.
K
UNREST IN RAILWAY WORLD'
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
VERIH'N, Sept. 2. (Via Paris, Sept.
J.) Under the escort of General 1
, commander of the citadel
PUTS N1E TO
MEASURE AND
STRIKE IS OFF
n-
SHACKLETON RESCUES
MEMBERS OF HIS PARTY
PUNT A ARENAS, Chile, Sept.
3 Lieutenant Sir Ernest H. Shack -leton
has rescued the members of
his Anarctic expedition who were
marooi.ed on Elephant island.
Shackleton returned here today
with his men safe and well on board
the rescue ship Yelcho.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Sept. 3. The Ad
imson eight-hour day bill, exacted
irom congress la.st week by the rail
road brotherhoods as the price of call
ing off the nation-wide strike ordered
cor tomorrow, was signed by l'resident
A lison today in his private Car at the
.'nion station, where he mopped on his
A ay from Shadow Lawn, N. J., to
lodgenville, Ky. That there may be
no question as to the legality of the
measure as a result ol it having been
signed oa Sunday, the president will
iftix his signature again upon his re
urn to Washington next Tuesday.
How long peace shall reign as a re
sult of the bill is dependent upon de
velopments in the proposed test of the
constitutionality of the act. Should the
railways take no action at the begin
ning of an investigation on the work
ings of the eight-hour day the special
commission for which the measure pro
vides, the brotherhoods will remain inactive.
The employes' leaders declare, how
After the failure of his An
arctic expedition, Shackleton, with
five members of his crew managed
to reach Fort Stanley, Falkland,
islands, May 31. Twenty-two
others of the crew were left on
Elephant island on April 9. The
first attempt to rescue these men
was made in June and the second
attempt in July, both failing on
on account of the ice. I
C01E1ERS
IN C0TR1 ON
IY TO CONFER
ren.iNicar- A. P. Leased Wife
NEW YORK, Sept. 3. All the mem
bers of the .Mexican commission and
THIRTEEN ZEPPELINS ME i
PART IN LDHD0NRA1DBUTARE
DRIVEN OFF BK AIRCRAFT 6UNS
?ver. that should the law be held iin-,'"1';1" w,c 1
.-inntitiitinnal an.l lha r.il..v. ot- appoint uy meir respective overn
republicar A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Sept. 3. Addressing i
meeting of railway men at Derby to
day, James Henry Thomas, member of
parliament for that constituency and
secretary of the Amalgamated Society
of Railway Servants, referred to the
unrest in tha railway world arising
from the men's demands for increased
the region 0f waPH owinB t0 thp COMt of fooi- Some
oi uie railway worKers naa tnreateneu
to cease work immediately unless sat
"-itih Rhinn RiinV
LONDON j.-,.t 3. t.1-r shin.
I'inij rencv today reoorterl that th"
following Hritish s'eamships had
ben sunk:
D-iart. isri torn, una'tripil- Strt
ballan. 4 o. ions, una-med: Kol
vinia. "110 tons, unarmed crew end
Iiassene-s saved; Mascot to, 1,097
tons, rf Lei'h.
A disnnteh to Reuters' Te!eT-am
Company fr-m Amsterdam state
tv,nf tlx Dutch narPer ZforHnrenrl
has been torpedoed. The crew wa-saved.
A dispatch to the Times from
Alliens ftates that King Constantinr
has informed the entente allied min-isti"-s
that as a, result of the entry
cf Ri mania in the war he is distiosed
of Verdun, throughout the bombard
ment, the corresjMindent of the Asso
ciated Press today made a circuit ol
the entire town and surrounding forti
fications and heard the grim oltl hert
sum up just what had been done and
how the military balance sheet standf
after ninny months struggle.
It gave the first opportunity to view
the extent of the recent destruction
and particularly the defences since the
French turned the tide by taking thf
offensive and recapturing the strategic
tev of Fleury
One of the outstanding impression
from the tour was the absolute convic
tion of those on the ground that thf
fight for Verdun is over.
The German losses in the effort t(
take Verdun now are known to reach
i half million men, while the French
losses in holding up the town are lesf
:han half that number.
It is the belief that the Germans will
gradually let o of Verdun, and before
winter will try to shorten their lines
tlong: the whole western front by i
teady retrograde movement. Many pf
"icers miv that Rumania's entrance into
the war will precipitate the withdrawal
4nd early German collapse. But mort
onservative authorities feel that Ger
many will hang on for some time be
ore yielding to the entente allied mili
tary and economic superiority.
An Intermittent bombardment is stil'
joins on from Port Tuvennes. Sou
ville, St. Michael and Belleville. Thf
German's cannon sounded like a distant
-oar. and each day seems yet further
iway and less terrible.
But the shelling goes steadily on, and
'8,000 shells have fallen inide the
'imits of Verdun during the battle
Th- daily number of these shells wa
TOt down below 300 and one ,day 75(
were counted.
The terrible extent of the destruction
was Dointed out during the course of
the tour. The town itself is utterly
ihandoned, not even soldiers being per
mitted in the streets. Such shops and
houses as escaped the shells are closed
and barricaded. The whole lines of
streets are crumbling ruins, with only
a jagged wall remaining.
A visit to one of the forts of the
inner fortifications which is still shell
ing the Germans, showed the fighting
ground of Fleury at close range. Ovei
the entrance of the fort was a notice
to settle the differences be-
1 tween the two coumrres were in thie
j city tonight preparatory to their de-
parture for New London, Connecticut,
i Tuesday or Wednesday for joint con
ferences. .1. Brooks Barker, assistant
. secretary to the United States commisr
I sinners, announced that the Connects
their lines, a strike will follow
promptly.
None of the brotherhood leaders
.vitnessed the signing of the bill. They
had expected, according to tentative
irrangements made by Secretary Wil-
1 iV.. ... V. . u.. .1. '"'""Cl
.' , . a j . ..' T I lMCinit city had heen selected in place of
president decided to attend to the bus!-. ,rtstm)lhi N. H. because the accom.
ness at the railroad station rotations there were considered better.
No ceremony attended the signing i Tne t leaving here will consist
today. Rudolph hot-ester. '-Jtant (lf 2g ,.ersoJ18 all of whom will make
ecretary to the president, took the bill the trip on lhe presidential yacht Mav
o the train. Near the car a group of flower. " ;
trainmen in their overalls paused in . informal greetings, were exchanged
heir work long enough to watch the I between the Americans and Mexicans
iresident write his name. (today, but tomorrow members of the
An engineer, passing on a yard en- American commission will call offici-
fine, celebrated the occasion by sev
eral prolonged blasts of his whistle.
The president also signed several
.-ommissions and executive papers, and
lent Secretary Tumulty to Majority
ally on the visitors and an hour after
ward the Mexican commissioners will
be guests at luncheon of Secretary of
State Lansing. Mrs. Lansing will be
hostess at another luncheon to the wo
Leader Kern, of the senate, to urge j men accompanying the Mexican coin
passage of the Webb hill, passed yes- missioners.
isfactory assurances were given, and
he appealed to them not to precipitate j to the garrison that the place was tc
matters, although he declared that the be levelled in extremity and never sur
situation was becoming dangerous. rendered.
SHIPS OF ENTERTE ALLIED FLEET
IF
terday by the house, designed to permit
American firms to utilize common sell
ing agencies ahroad without violating
the Sherman anti-trust law.
Later the private car was attached
to a special train, bound for Hodgen
ville, to participate in the exercises in
cident to the transfer of the log cabin
in which Abraham Lincoln was born,
:i the federal government tomorrow,
it which time the president will make
jn addresa.
It developed today that the brother
hoods, before summoned to Washing
on by l'resident Wilson, had agreed to
?all a strike effective August 20. The
arders then drafted were used when
the strike finally was set for Labor
Day. The strike date, September 4.
was filled in with a rubber stamp, but
the original date of the call. August 14,
was not changed.
Hundreds of telegrams came to the
brotherhood leaders today. " Most of
them were congratulatory. One or two
were from locals who had received no
otice that the strike was off, so to
morrow morning m some few Tar away
wtions of the country, there may be
temporary difficulties. El forts were
eing made tonight to communicate
with all of these points.
A circular letter drafted by u . G.
Lee, and giving the complete details of
negotiations since August 1, as well as
a copy of the Adamson bill, was being
mailed to all members of the brother
hood tonight. After completing thin
work Mr. Leo left for his home in
'leveland.
The three brotherhood beads will
eave either tomorrow or Tuesday.
Railroad executives called here by
he president left yesterday.
S RUNE
GERMAN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
, ATHENS, Sept 2. (Via London, Sept.
3.) Ships of the entente allied fleet
sank a German submarine todnv off
Phaleron. ItyjB claimed by entente
Father of Late President
Mftdero Found Dead in Bed
Republican A: P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON'. Sent. 3. Tho con
gressional exodus, afrcr nine event
ful months of legislation, already has
begun. With adjournment praetlcal
Jy assured bv Wednesday or Thurs
day, scores of members packed their
eamimlgn speeches lant night and
rushed for trains bound for political
battlefields
All that remains on the adminis
tiative legislative program in the
senate is the revenue bill and ths
Webb bill to permit Amij-ican ex
porters to entablish combination
selling agencies obcoad. Senate
leaders plan to Incorporate the Webb
bill lno the reve-nue bill as an
amendment in order to assure ipiick
uction on It. It Is Senator Simmino'
'military officers that the undersea
boat had received its supplieH from the
Austrian and German ships which were
seized in the harbor of Piraeus -today
by French sailors.
A number of destroyers of the en
tente fleet put down anti-submarine
nets and nosed close to where the
Lemnos and ttie Kitkis, formerly the
United States batleships Misissippi and
Idaho, were lying. It is currently be
lieved that the entente fleet desires to
establish a naval base at Piraeus for
the entente allied armies' wing on the
Macedonian front. The Greek govern
H ment, it is understood, will not ob
Anlninn thai 4 1...
. ion mvenue measure wi
no ready for conference TnoMduv 1 lect.
night, and that congress should ad- The seizure of the Austrian and Ger
journ by Thursday night at the lat- man merchant ships at Piraeus and
ok'- the occupation by entente troops of
Informal conferences on senate' the Greek wireless station last night
amendments to . the- revenue Mil are (Friday) threw the Austro German res
already in progress and a . report, of Idents. in Athens into a panic.
the conference committee will not Toward midnight,, the newsboys
re-Miire much time, the leaders say. I shouting "extras" in the streets, at
A few odds and ends of leirlslation ! traded the employees of Baron von
I-pi tue senate to deal w.th and a'Schenk. the direction or German pro
few obstacles still threaten to pro- ! paganda in Greece, from the hotels in
lone- the session, but administration their night clothes to learn their fate.
ipi-hus say mat nothirur eon d hold a p D nlomats of the entente a lies de
quorum longer than
It mand that Baron von Schenk and six
Th..nlnv
is pro tin ile that the senate will take ty co-workers be expelled from Greece,
an hour or two to pass the Porto Rico Several arrests already have been made.
i mens.np ana election bill but no i von Schenk is believed to have es
tuner measures are. on the
but no i von
program, caped.
Franklin K. Lane, secretary of the
interior, and chairman of the Ameri
can commission, said tonight a brief
conference would be held tomorrow
and probably on the trip to New Lon
don it will be decided when and where
the sessions are to be held.
"There is no telling just how long
the commission will meet, Secretary
Lane said. "Mr. Carranza has sent no
theorists to this country. They are all
practical men, two of them engineers,
but there are likely tu e many matters
to be settled. Of course, there is noth
ing binding on either country as to
anything we may do. The principal
matter is the border question. Others
of like character will very likely be
discussed. The American commission
ers with the exception, I think, of
Judge Gray, have been in Mexico, so
that we will not all be groping in the
dark. Personally I believe that we shall
get along very well."
The American commissioners are
Secretary Lane, Judge George
Gray and Dr. John R. Mott. Secre
taries: Herbert A. Meyers, W. Bab
cock and J. Roberts and Dr. L. S.
Rowc; J. B. Parker, assistant .secre
tary; William McNeir disbursing agent,
1 r. A. R. Goodman and Lieutenant R.
B. Paddock, military aide, and two
stenographers.
BELIEVE UN
VILLISTA ARMY
SOBNTOBEIET
Embargoes Are Lifted
NEW YORK, Sept. 3. Embargoe-t
placed on freight by many eastern
roads were countermanded after the
signing of the eight-hour dav bill hv
President Wilson. L. E. Shepperd.
senior vice president of the Order of
Railway Conductors, went to Washing
ton today to confer with brotherhood
leaders regarding future action of the
unions should the railroad heads con
test the constitutionality of the Adam
son bill.
It is possible that the brotherhood
heads may meet the conference com
mittee of the railway managers before
leaving for their homes to clear up
minor details, it was said tonight, but
it was not known whether that would
be in Washington or New- York.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HOUSTON, Tex., Sept. 3. A strike
of all trainmen on the Southern Pacific
lines in Louisiana and Texas was
iverted tonight by the timely discov
ery of and correction of an error in the ' "T 1
code message sent from Washington I chairmen would accept newspaper
..oL-in- th n.,i raiiw.-.v s.riw. Tor. nouncement of what had happened
Crowds Greet President
CHARLESTON. W. Va.. Sept. 3.
(ON BOARD PRESIDENT WILSON'S
SPECIAL TRAIN) Crowds gathered
at every station where President Wil
son's special train stopned today on
the way to Hodgenville, Ky. The pres
ident having decided to have no poli
tics on the trip refused many Insistent
requests for speeches, but appeared on
the platform frequently to greet the
crowds and shake hands.
Everywhere the prevention of the
railroad strike was mentioned, and
various delegations of trainmen came
to extend their thanks for the eight
hour day law signed at Washington
this morning by the president. Chair
man Newlands of the Senate interstate
commerce commission who is a mem-
(Continued on Page Six)
revoking the general railway strike or
der, following the passage by congress
of the eight-hour day law. The code
message as received here by J. L.
Morgan, chairman of the Southern Pa
cific Texas and Louisiana lines, did
not revoke the order to strike, and
preparations were continuing for the
trainmen to quit work at 6 o'clock to
morrow morning.
The error was discovered by A. E.
Farquharson, vice president of the
Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, of
New Orleans, tonight, who caused an
other message to be sent to Houston,
resulting in the abandonment of strike
plans at 9 o'clock tonight.
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
LONDON, Sept. 3. Thirteen Zeppelin air.ships took
part in the raid over the eastern counties last night and '
an official statement issued this afternoon says it was
the most formidable attack by air ever made on Eng
land. Only three of the Zeppelins were able to approach
the outskirts of London. One of them was shot down and
the other two were driven off by aircraft guns and aero
planes. , '
Reports regarding the number of casualties and the
damage caused by the great number of bombs dropped
had not been completed this afternoon -but it was stated
that the damage and loss of life were not heavy "con
sidering the number of ships engaged."
The text of the official statement
said:
"Last night's raid was carried out by
thirteen airships, and thus was the
most formidable attack that has been
made on this country. The principal
theater of operations was the eastern
counties and the objectives seem to
have been London and certain indus
trial centers in the midlands.
"Reduction or obscuration of lights
proved moFt efficacious, for the raiding
squadrons instead of steering a steady
course as in the raids of the spring
and of la.st autumn, groped about in
darkness looking for a safe avenue to
approach their objectives.
"Three airships only were able to
approach the outskirts of London. One
of them appeared over the northern
district abort 2:15 in the morning,
where she was picked up by search
lights and engaged by anti aircraft
guns and aeroplanes. Soon the air
ship was seen to burst into flames and
fall to earth.
"The ship was destroyed, the wreck
age, engines and half-burned bodies
of the crew being found at Cuttej,
near Enfield
"The large amount of wood em
ployed in the framework of the Zep
pelin is startling and would seem to
point to a shortage of aluminum in
Germany.
"The other two ships which ap
proached London were driven off with
out being able to approach the center
of the city.
a great number ot bombs were
dropped promiscuously over the east
anglian and southern counties. Re
ports in hand indicate that the damage
and loss of life will not be heavy, a
great number of the bombs having
fallen either into the sea or in re
mote country districts.
"It is hoped that any persons who
picked up fragments of the wrecked
airship will submit them to general
headquarters without delay. It should
be remembered that the retention of
such articles is a contravention of the
defense of the realm regulations.
"A statement of casualties will be is
sued tomorrow."
The Zeppelin raid lasted "from late
last night until the early hours of this
morning. News of the raid circulated
during the evening and people waited
up in expectation of seeing sights
which became familiar last year. They
had almost given up hope when the
firing of guns told them that Zeppelins
were making an effort to reach the
city. Only a few rounds were fired,
however, as the defenses of London
proved too strong for the raiders, the
most daring of which had been struck
and brought down in flames. Ob
servers say the death agony of the
Zeppelin lasted a minute and a half.
Tne night was a perfect one for Kep
pelins. It was very dark with few
stars visible and with no wind or rain
to interfere with their maneuvers.
A correspondent of the Associated
Press watched the bombardment of the
Zeppelin which was destroyed. When
first seen it was sailing with shrannel
bursting all around . and searchlights
centered on it. Suddenly the Zep
pelin disappeared in a cloud of smoke
emitted by itself.
The sky was clear at the time, but
the searchlights lost trace of their
quarry A minute afterward a brilliant
light appeared in the sky, which in
creased in intensity as it descended.
Then the light spread out into flames
falling gradually. An altitude of about
1,000 feet was reached when it burst
into an enormous sheet of flame,
lighting up . the surrounding country
for miles. Apparently the gasoline
had caught fire and the airship dashed
rapidly to the earth. From villages
I
republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA CITY. Sept 3. Gen
eral Jacinto Trevino i.tated today
that the commands of Constitution-
Uists under General Cavazos and
Colonel Zuaski are- expected at any
moment to comg. into contact with
the main body of Villistas. now
moving north, while a pursuing
column under Colonel Medina had
captured three prisoners and a large
number of horse? in a skirmish to
day with a detached band near
Cieneguillas, Chihuahua.
According to a V illista spy, cap
tured at Santa Ysabel today. Villa
is still badly crippled bv his wounds
and rides between two body guards
who give him their support wher
his strength gives out.
The news of the skirmish was
telesrai lied here from Santa Rosalia.
Ohio Reaches Border
EL PASO. Sept. 3. The Fourth
Ohio infantry arrived here late to
day and inarched with their band
olaying to the camp already pre
pared near Fort Bliss. The 3cond
ind Third Kentucky infantry with
lmbulance and signal corps ae ex
pected to detrain some time tonight,
fhis will bring the national guard
ind regular contingent in the
leighborhood of El Paso to about
lO.fleo men.
Dysentery iias made its appear
mce among the troops on the bor
der, according to a general order
posted in the local camps tonight
which warns the men against drink
ing river and well water and eating
I uncooked fruits and green vegetables..
The men are told that the city water,
which is piped to the camps, is un
infected. Army officers state that dvsentery
has been stamped out in the punitive
expedition It was due to the men
drinking ditch ' water. Wells were
sunk in the expeditionary camps ami
a pure supply ootained.
The Fourth Ohio was shortly follow
ed by the Fifth Ohio infantry.
(Continued on Pape Six)
ERROR 1 CODE I ESSAGE NEARLY
BRINGS STRIKE ON THE E5PEE
his departure he had replied to several
telegraphic inquiries about the changed
code.
All of the brotherhood leaders have
been taking it for granted that their
an-and
postpone local walkouts until the new
codes could arrive or they would ex
change messages with Washington.
None of the officials now here thinK
there will be any difficulties other than
temporary ones.
Message in New Code
WASHINGTON, Sept 3. Messages
calling off the strike sent from here
last night by the brotherhood heads
were in a new code, copies of which
were mailed to all the general chair
men last Wednesday. At the brother
hood headquarters tonight it was ex
plained that some of the chairmen
probably would not receive their codes
before the . hour set for the strike and
that it would be necessary to advise
them in uncoded dispatches of the sit
uation.
W. G. Lee, head of the trainmen, left
fgr his home in Cleveland, but before
(Continued on Page Six)
Congressmen Hurry Home .
To Look After Campaign
fRepubliean A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Sept. . 3. Francisco
Madero, father of the late President
Madero of Mexico, was found dead in
bed here today from heart disease. He
was 67 years old.
Mr. Madero fled to this city after
the assassination of his two sons, Fran
cisco, Jr., then president of Mexico,
and Gustavo, who had been financial
agent for the revolutionists.
The family estates, said to have
been valued at $8,000,000, including
large holdings of land in northern Mex
ico, 'were confiscated by the Huerta
Madero that his property would be re
stored to him., Julio Madero, a son,
now is in Mexico arranging with the
authorities there for the transfer of
the estates. ' '
Mr. Madero was born in Parras, Coa
huila. He accumulated his fortune
through investments in farm lands and
in mining and banking.
Mr. Madero's widow was Mercedes
Gonzales Trevino, member of a prom
inent and wealthy family in Monterey.
They were married 42 years ago. Thir
teen children were born to them, eleven
of whom are living.
government, but three weeks ago the The body will be taken to Mexico for
Carranza government informed Mr. burial.
