Ah ilarrisburg Sits on City's Front Steps to See First Annual Kipona
HARRISBTJRG TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 204
KIPONA ATTRACTS
* TO RIVER SHORE
First Annual Event Under Direction of "Greater Harris
barg Navy" Shows Remarkable Growth of Basin's
Popularity With All Classes; Weatherman Does His
Bit to Make Day Ideal; Water Sports in Plain View
of Throngs Along the Wall
DECORATED BOAT PARADE WILL
BE CLIMAX OF GREAT REGATTA
Hundred and Fifty Athletes Compete For Prizes in Swim
ming and oßat Races, Man-Fishing, Tilting, Aquapla
ning and Other Thrilling Contests; Hundreds of Canoes
With Harrisburg's Fairest Reposing Amid the Cush
ions Add to Beauty of Dazzling Scene
The looms are still, the great red fires lie banked.
Come! All the Nation seeks a holiday,
A short respite from the eternal grind.
Just ease the strain a bit and rest, to-day!
Look backward. More than once we grazed the edge
Of pits of horror where the war gods dwell.
Another year has passed while yet we rest
Upon our silent guns and all is well.
Then take the blessings which are given us
Of peace and fruitage of our work well done;
Make this a day of idleness. The yoke
Will seem the lighter with to-morrow's sun.
—ANNA H. WOOD.
Written for the Harrisburg Telegraph.
Until long, long after the tiniest person who sat to-day on the
city's "front steps" has grown too old and tottery to promenade
without a cane along the water front, Labor Day. September 4, 1916,
will stand pre-eminently in Harrisburg's history of red-letter days.
Not a wheel turned in business activity after noon and many of
the mills and factories and other establishments were shut down all
day and Harrisburg's labor organizations paraded during the after
noon.
Thousands of folks from Harrisburg and from surrounding
towns who could travel by train, trolley, motor, team, boat or afoot
filled every available seat along the river front wall, the river bridges,
the floats and the hundreds of canoes and motor and steam boats on
the Susquehanna.
For to-day the "Greater Harrisburg Navy," the city's recently
organized body of canoeists, motor boatmen and other river en
thusiasts, held its first annual Kipona on the great natural basin
that has helped and is still helping to keep Harrisburg on the map
of progressive cities of the country.
All afternoon the thousands of folks
who participated as contestants or
spectators partly demonstrated how
well they think of the Susquehanna
basin as a pleasure-gathering point.
To-night the popularity of the same
old basin will be demonstrated with
all the glory of electrical and fire
works display, illuminated boats,
bands of music on the water and along
the shores.
Never Such a Turn Out
Regattas and water carnivals that
suggested the Kipona have featured
other city celebrations but never has
such a splendid turn-out of a city's
population testified on a grander scale
how thoroughly Harrisburg has grown
to view its river front as a municipal
asset.
Cheering thousands voiced their
sentiments in more ways than one
that they want and must have munici
pal bathing beaches, boathouses,
properly blasted and marked channels
and the dozen and one other little
conveniences and comforts which the
Navy will boost to obtain from the
city fathers.
But to get back to the river front.
All day yesterday and far Into last
night and from an early hour this
morning until the last possible mo
ment this afternoon, the Susquehanna
basin was never busier.
And when at 1:30 o'clock the great
program idicator on the official float
opposite Market street flashed a great
number "I" to tell the waiting thou
sands that the first event was about to
begin, the results of the efforts of days
of preparation and co-operation was
evident.
Great Course Clear
From the tiny flag-topped buoy that
marked the start of the great "war"
canoe race for the inter-high school
acadmy championship, opposite
the city pumping station, all the way
to the Market street bridge the broad
course close into the city's shore was
free of all but the ocasional chugging
motor-boat of officials or policemen.
Otherwise the great course was
clear. From South street to the
bridges long lines of flats had been
anchored and between the spaces
THE WEATHER
For Harrlsbur* and vicinity! Fair
and Mmtnhnl warmer to-night;
cloudy to-morrow.
For Eastern Pennsylvania: Fair to
night and probably Tuesday)
warmer; moderate south wind*.
So Bulletin—l.ecal Holiday
Temperature: ft a. m„ (C.
Son: Risen, 3:3« a. m.t sets, 6:33
p. m.
Moon: Full moon, September 11,
3:31 p. m.
River Stage: 5J feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 73.
lowest temperature. 30.
Mean temperature, 82.
Normal temperature, 08.
BY CAHRIBtt* 6 CENTH A WEEK,
M.\GLK COPIES 2 CEXTS.
ropes were stretched. Here by the
hundreds clung the canoes and motor
boats of the spectators.
Basin Gay With Color
Nearly every canoe was gay with
color in one way or another and as a
rule the colors of gowns and hats
vied with the more vivid flashes of
orange and blue and green and scar
let of silken sweaters. And blue eyes
and brown eyes and gray eyes and
brown eyes excitedly flashed a re
sponse to the blue of the skies over
head. And the Susquehanna all day
smiled back to the heavens and in fact
the weatherman had truly "done his
bit" to make the meaning of "Kipona"
come true.
Of course you saw the events this
afternoon —unless you were ill or
missed your train, so perhaps it's use
less to tell of what took place on the
[Continued on Pase "]
CHILDREN BARRED FROM
EAGLESMERE
Special to the Telegraph
Eaglesmere, Pa., Sept. 4. The
Board of Health has issued an order
that no children under 16 years of age
shall be allowed to enter Eaglesmere
without a physician's health certificate,
which must not be more than 36 hours
old.
COMBINE TYPHOID TESTS
Although tests made of cream and
ice cream on Saturday were not re
ported to-day. Dr. J. M. J. Kauniek,
city health officer, eald that he be
lieves they will show improvement,
and that within a v.eek the supply
will again be safe. Several cases of
typhoid fever were reported to-day,
and the source of the contagion is
being investigated. Fifty-three cases
have been reported !n the city since
August 1. Tests were made to-day
also of cream shipped into the city
and ice cream manufactured in local
plants.
Telegraph Suspends
For the Present All
Ice Cream Advertising
Until the completion or the in
vestigation and report upon all
Ice-cream plants, serving the peo
ple of Harrisburg: and the sur
rounding towns and communities,
by tlie City Department of Health
the Telegraph has decided to de
cline all advertising of such con
cerns. This action Is taken with
out prejudice and solely in the In
terest of the health of tlie entire
community. Rejection of such ad
vertising does not Involve criticism
of any Ice-cream manufacturer.
HARRISBURG, PA., MONDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 4, 1916.
brought thousands to Harrisburg s "Front Steps" and more thousands to the river to-day. Cameramen were on the job and found manv inter
esting things to 'shoot. As shown in the above etching, thrilling incidents came thick ami fast. In the three-man, standing double paddle race Frank
*1 Rouch and Clarence Beck, put a little "action" into the cameraman's picture by toppling out of their canoe in ten feet of water while skitn
ming al p"& at a fast clip. Of course the war canoes were the target for many a camera and two of the contestants are shown above. In the renter the
boys are seen paddles, almost lifting their big boat out of the water near the finish. On the other side the Central
INVADING HOSTS
ARE BEING HELD
BY RUMANIANS
Bulgarians and Germans Re
pulsed in Eastern Rumania;
Russians to Aid Them
Between the Danube and the Black
Sea in Eastern Rumania, where the
second campaign in consequence of
Rumania's declaration of war has
been opened, the Bulgarian and Ger
man torces of invasion are engaged
heavily with the Rumanians all along
the frontier. The Rumanian War
Office announces the repulse of the
Germans and Bulgarians at Bazardjik,
In Dobrudja, but gives no information
as to the progress of the fighting else
where. In this campaign it is ex
pected Jhe Rumanians will have the
assistance of Russian forces which
crossed the border from Bessarabia
into the Dobrudja soon after Rumania
joined the entente allies.
Continue Hungary Invasion
The Rumanian invasion of Hungary
continues, official announcement is
made, that the towns of Borszek and
Sekeli, in eastern Transylvania, have
been occupied by the Rumanians.
The Bulgarians on the Macedonian
[Continued on Pag*> 10]
LINCOLN HOME
GIVEN TO NATION
Thousands Attend Formal
Transfer of Birthplace and
Cabin; Wilson Speaks
Py Associated Press
Hodgenville, Ky. ( Sept. 4.—Many
| thousands of persons made the pil
| grimage to Hodgenvtlle to-day by
] train, in automobiles, afoot and in
j horse-drawn conveyances to be pres
ent at the ceremonies attending the
transfer to the government of the Lin
i coin birthplace and the cabin in
' which Abraham Lincoln was born,
i The Lincoln cabin, inclosed in a
magnificent granite memorial building,
j was given to the government by the
] Lincoln Farm Association under a spo
| cJal act of Congress.
Speeches <ver e made by President
I VV ilson. Secretary Baker. Senator John
joharp Williams, of Mississippi, and
[former Governor Folk, of Missouri.
i As President Wilson's special train
[Continued on Page »]
New Battle Cruisers With
Six Smokestacks Will
Look Like Blast Furnaces
By Associated Press
Washington. D. C., Sept. 4.—The
| navy'ti new battle cruisers, four of
which have been authorized to be laid
! down next year, will look like a blast
I furnace gone to sea. Each will be
j equipped with six or more* smoke
| stacks, according to plans now being
I completed by the Navy Department.
I Some American cruisers carry four
stacks and some of European con
j stroction have five, but with the excep
tion of a few small destroyers no ves
j sel* in operation have six.
The battle cruisers will be electric
driven and oil burning. The builders
will be required to produce vessels that
I will give off no smoke when it is de
sirsd to conceal their movements, but
jthey will also be equipped so as to
. pour out heavy banks of black smoke
as a screen to conceal the operations
I of \cssels behind them.
To make the thirty-flve-knot speed
required It has been necessary to pro
vide the ships with between 180,000
and 200,000 horsepower, generated by
stearn turbines, which in turn drive
the electric generators. Navy experts
are confident they will make thirty
five knots with full equipment aboard,
and. stripped, will run thirty-eight
knots, or more than forty-two land
miles, per hour. European navies try
out their swift boats for speed with
out armament and with only a small
portion of their fuel cargo aboard.
American navy craft, however, must
maJ«» the required speed with full
fighting equipment and at least two
thirdo of full fuel capacity. .
THRILLS A-PLENTY IN FIRST ANNUAL KIPONA
LAWER SHOT IN
PARK WITH GIRL;
WIFE IS AWAY
Attorney Killed in New York
Park by Two Footpads
While Autoing
By Associated Press
New York, Sept. 4.—Dwight P. Dil
worth, a lawyer, was shot and killed
last night while in an automobile in
Van Cortlandt Park with a young
woman companion. Two men, with
caps drawn closely over their fore
heads, sprang from the darkness in
front of the car when it stopped near
some golf links and fired three shots,
according to the young woman, who
said she was Miss Mary McNiff, 19
years old.
Miss McNiff gave the police the
first information they had of the
shooting. She said she ran nearly a
mile after eluding the assailants be
fore she came upon a railroad flag
man in the park who escorted her to
the Kingsbridge police station.
Dilworth was 40 years old and lived
in Montclair, N. J. According to Miss
McNiff he invited her for a ride
[Continued on Page 10]
HUGHES TO FLY
WILSON'S CLAIMS
Nightly Will Answer Assertions
of President; Tariff Spe
cial Target
St. Louis, Mo., Sept. 4.—With the
trump card of the Democrats laid on
j the table before him in President WH
! son>. speech of acceptance, Charles E.
| Hughes is now prepared to challenge
i by direct refutation and analysis many
|of the "extravagant claims" of the
i administration.
In his speeches beginning at Nash
[Continiicd on Page 10]
Arrange For Opening of
Wharton School Branch
Within the next few days, Wendell
P. Raine, instructor in the Wharton
| School of Commerce and Finance of
i the University of Pennsylvania, Phila
: delphla, will be in Harrisburg for the
: purpose of arranging for the opening
iof the Harrisburg branch of the
' school.
At a meeting of the faculty held
last Monday, at which reports were
read of the last two years' work, it
; was determined beyond all question to
continue the Extension School Work
in the four cities of Harrisburg, Read-
I ing, Scranton and Wilkes-Barre, in
| view of the results accomplished in
these cities.
j Dr. William McClellan, the newly
elected Dean of the Wharton School
! has given assurance of his deep inter
; est in Extension work, and has an
j nounced his intention of visiting Har
! risburg about September 18, to look
■ over the situation. At that time it is
planned to hold a "Get together"
luncheon so that the new' dean ipay
make the acquaintance of the stu
dents and of businessmen of the city.
Mr. Raine will come to the city a
few days after Labor Day and remain
here until the opening of the school
which will be about October 2. He
will have general charge of the en
rollment, assisted by committees from
the students, the Rotary Club and the
Chamber of Commerce.
KILLED UNDER CARS
While working at the Harrisburg
pipe and pipe bending works, where
he is employed as a brakeman, Delbert
Lee Gallagher, aged 23. 330 Curtin
street, slipped and fell under a draft of
cars which was being moved. He was
killed almost instantly. Coroner Eck-
Inger decided that death wns acci- i
denial. He is survived by his parents. |
four brothers and four sisters. Gal- ;
lagher was a member of the Kelly
Hose Company. Funeral services will |
be held on Thursday morning at 10
o'clock, conducted by the Rev. E. E. I
Snyder, pastor of the St. Matthew's I
Lutheran Church. Burial will be made
in tli«s Faxtang Cemetery. 4
EIGHT-HOUR BILL LONG LINE OF
CONGRESS PASSED FLOATS ATTRACT
IS NOW A LAW EYES OF THRONG
Senate Put Measure, Which
Called Off Strike, Through
Without Opposition
By Associated Press
Washington, Sept. 4. The eight
hour day act, passed Saturday even
ing. by the Senate, was considered a
law to-day, having received President
Wilson's signature yesterday, but to
avoid any chance of its being held void
on the ground that it received execu
tive approval on a legal holiday, the
President will sign it again to-morrow
on his return from Hodginville, Ky.,
where to-day he attended Lincoln Me
morial exercises.
The Adanison eight-hour day bill,
exacted from Congress last week by
the railroad brotherhoods as the price
of calling off the Nation-wide strike,
was signed by Wilson in his private
car at Union Station.
Peace Hangs on Developments
How long peace shall reign as a re
sult of the hill apparently is depended
upon developments in the proposed
move to test the eoriVtitionality of the
act. Should the railroads take no ac
[Continued ou Page £s]
PENNYPACKER
FUNERAL TUESDAY
Services For Ex-Governor Who
Died Saturday to Be Held
in Philadelphia .
Sfecial to the Telegraph
Philadelphia, Sept. 4. The body
'of ex-Governor Pennypacker, who
idied Saturday at his home in Schwenk
ville, was brought to Philadelphia to
day, and the funeral services will be
held to-morrow at 10 a. m., in Old
Christ Church, Second street above
Market. Bishop Darlington, of Har
i risburg, will conduct the services and
jhe will be assisted by Rev. L. C.
Washburn, rector of Old Christ
(Church, and Rev. Dr. Stockett. rector
of the late Go' trnor's own Church,
| St. James-on-the-Perkiomen.
| No services will be held at the home
]in Schwenkville, and following the
| services here the body will be taken
, to the Pennypacker ramily lot in the
Phoenixville Cemetery, where It will
jbe buried privately. In this lot are
j buried the bodies of ex-Governor
Pennypacker's father, grandfather
| and greatgrandfather on his father's
! side and mother and grandfather on
his mother's side. At the funeral ser
vices here Post No. 19, G. A. 11., of
i which the former Governor was a
! member, and Washington Lodge, F.
1 and A. M., of which he was also a
member, have been invited.
List of Pallbearers
The list of honorary pallbearers,
which includes the names of some of
[Continued on Pase 3]
KBY MEMORIAL FOUNTAIN
TO BE ERECTED SOON
City Commissioner Bowman with
the representation of the granite con
tractor who will erect the Eby mem
orial fountain on the plaza at the
pumping station, foot of North street
1 decided upon the location of the foun
tain to-day. Commissioner Bowman
I will provide a receptacle for ice to
; cool the water. It will be known as
the "Children's Fountain."
OXE DEAD IN CRASH
Special to the Telegraph
Allentown, Pa.,' Sept. 4. Harry
Fries, of Pottsville, was killed and two
women were seriously injured late last
i night when his motorcycle collided with
the automobile of Earl Schlogtl, of Tou
-1 near Central Park, Just east of the
| city limits of Allentown.
AUTO HITS BOY
While attempting to cross the street
in front of hie home, Leroy Ma.vhew,
aged 4, was struck by an automobile
owned by Charles Glass, Linglestown, I
and knocked tr. the ground. The la<i ;
was taken to his home where medical
attention was given nim. It was learn- '
ed th&t he had received several
bruiseti about the bead and body,
10 PAGES
Merchants Take Big Part in
Making First Annual Kipona
Great Success
While the big program of water
sports attracted the eyes of thousands
throughout the afternoon, the admir
ing crowds had a pretty good chance
to view the merchants' end of the dis
play—the long line of stationary floats.
True, the effect will'be wonderfully en
hanced to-night when the Jovian
[Continued on Pace 7]
If
'•• NM7T ' ■ \5 MEXICANS !;•
I
' and a 18
..cd hy i . iming 1:
i alh , • iching ' ■
the bolder co-day. The bandits butchered the train guards ; -
! and movable, these advices II
TO INVESTIGATE EFFECT OF. LAW 1
- j mator Reed, of .. )ur, to-day fl {
• int olution to authorize te Com- ! I
1 ' ;- | ►
j|4 i *
* ost o! operation of railroads and'to j
i ;
■re; c ' :>e >
i' ■■ v. ;
HUGHES ] ECLINES • ["TEND CELEBRATION* :
Nashvi '"cm " «>t. ' Charles E. hes to-day j .
declined to attend, the .Labor Day celebration here, as £
arranged foi by • 7$
that Ho pet except on non- ; '
politics! subjects. *!'•. Hughes also declined to. review the \
Ten- nal Guard, : ying that h< k
a [
do to. , | ■■ j
il ICE CREAM WARNING
I ® Dr. I' 1 •
|! state y regarding his department's investigation
j • of mditions in Harrisburg: "We have by no f
. • means completed our investigation and the reports made 1
j l public as to impurities include only those discovered I J
! thi ■ ; monthly milk and cream rcj o '
j I in tired to eliminate ali f .. ( ►
- in.f-' ■ Require af least another ten days, when it is , ;
< 1 P l ' »
(' ' i
]| a complete summary of our findings.
L for i and until we can fix responi
\ | bi: advise people not to cat icc cream. This' \
< * adv., c • b , \ ten water is under ::.picion
I we can can l I
< • : -tsteurized, but neither of these safeguards ] '
■ is possible w; ,h icc cream.'' ' !
* 1 MARRIAGi LICENSES
i Tk«m»» Clemen* txrnririlrr nail Marie Sablna Pelfer, city. I |
' harlex Allirrl KnMtek. l.rltj »l>uru and Annie Kahii York. i
i Kdnard ChrlMluii Atuhnam, Meeltou mid Sarah Annie Seldera, Breaaler.
9 llowartl ottcrhi-lu Huinlu and Hriwc >lae Allnlne, Heretic;-.
| Jnhn W. MIHKI and Aitnta .Mary \eninulc, Mteelton.
I Cllr George t heater, \\ lllliimatum u nnd Helen Mae Crave, |
Charles Wlndemaker and male Suale Zimmerman, city.
111 Jill mH
CITY EDITION
BEATEN, ROBBED,
STARVED, GAGGED
AND LEFT TO DIE
Stripped of All but His Under
clothing, Near Death, Hill
Man Is Found
PRISONER TWO WEEKS
Thugs Waylay Him in Broad
Daylight and Steal His Money,
Clothes and Jewelry
Scarcely able to talk above a whls«
per because of his weakened condition.
J. 13. Garwood, aged 48, of 1221 Derry
street, after regaining consciousness
this morning at hjs home, told how he
was attacked in broad daylight two
weeks ago, by two men, who then
kept him a prisoner until last night.
Mr. Garwood, stripped of all of his
clothing except his underwear,
gagged and bound hand and foot, was
found late last night along the Cath
olic Cemetery by two foreigners. Ho
was able to give his name and ad
dress. but lapsed into unconsciousness.
| Shortly before 3 o'clock this morning.
Mr. Garwood again regained his senses
land asked for his wife, declaring that
[Continnril on Page 3]
City's Schools to Be
Opened Friday, Sept. 29
to Arrange Transfers V
City schools will be reopened Fri
day, September 29. and notices to that
effect will be mailed within a few days
by Dr. F. K. Downes, city superintend
ent. to all the teachers.
The time was fixed by the School
■ Hoard in accordance with Dr. Downes"
recommendation following his report
on the infantile paralysis situation.
The State health authorities have de
creed that the schools of the State re
main closed because of the danger of
widespread epidemic until the end of
the month.
As a rule the schools are usually
optned at the beginning of the week,
but Friday was fixed upon this time,
however, in order that the transfer ar
rangements could all be completed fop
a general and uninterrupted start tha
following Monday, October 2.
From time to time prior to the open
ing of the schools the regular grada
teachers' meetings will likely be held.
