If
MR. MERCHANT.
Jta ad in The Eagle wiU 'bring buyer
and Hller together. ; 1
THI WEATKI.l
Tonlcht and Sunday, unsettled
weather, local showers.
AN6 PILOT
BRYAN, TEXAS, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 4916.
e-v
ik Srgam : ;
- an6pilot
VOL XXX. , NO, 205. V , BRYAN, TEXAS, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 191,6. - , PRICE $4.C0 PER AM'J.'.!.
T7 -T7T7
Si-
I ? V - . . V II f I . I I I I w
WWW.i.
wmmig
a-e eav U - UU WU U
Sf
1
saV-st
rnnTiiniP pniinnrn m
rrkm pmuut nuKtu iiL
Is pare and wholesome
and keeps well in warn
weather. Y
FRESH STOCK
V
Hardy Newton
"-"""--rr inn nnnnnru ,
TURKISH
PAINTERS
LI
T
D OH
Eipeelally li This' Trut of ths
Younger 'Woman Painters At
Shown by Their Work.
TEACHERS
IflSTI
Constantinople, Sept. 4. (Corre
spondence of The Associated Preia.)
As an evidence of the constant In
crease of Occidental Influences in
TOTES BEHELD
New Plan Inaugurated by South Tex
as Counties for Holding Insti
tutesFour Counties Join.
LIES Ofl IL F10TS
The Capture of Mote. Mountains and Passes
in me oaij.'aiiiiaii vjivcb me rxussians an
Open Road Into Hungary. The Rumanian
Troops Have Made Further Progress in
Transylvania. THe Bulgarian Troops Have
Met Futher Reverses. The British Gained
- Considerable Grounds on the French Front
and Took a Number of Prisoners. The
Russians Made: Progress, Taking- Many
Prisoners. .
London, 8ept 4. The Russians
captured a whole aeries of mountain
heights and are now advancing to the
Hungarian frontier, according to Pet-
rograd.
The Rumanian troops occupied or-
(Br Anocliitd Pre)
Corpus Chrlstl, Teias, Sept 4. A
'new plan ' for holding teachers' In-
tltlllAa haa twtAn avnlvait hv Smith
Turkey, a considerable number of.1""" educators, county and city su''ky and Seksli In Transylvania,. says
mm .11 .... 'na.lnlnniln.1. ... . . . J I Ik. Blip U. .us. aW.Aa....
tduhk luraisn women were oermitien u n i w raumm juin-. .! v ataismoMt.
to exhibit their nalntlnri at n :4ng hands for the holding of a Joint
iinuiun ners, commencing loaay. ; wmmn rspuiaxo at DaiarajiK, dui eise-
The TeuJonlo-Bulgarlan forces have
ltlnn. Imt rnnrlnrfail f tha n.V !
the pupils of the Imperial Lyceum 'Heretofore the plan has teen for each where
Club,
Soma two tiundrait nalnllnv.l
Lyceum .Heretofore the plan has teen for each ) where continue the attack on the
county to bold Its own. Institute. The whole frontier between Bobrujs .43d,
rsMn all advantages of the new plsn Include Atdjod, and a Bulgarian raid by three Y.
.a ... ' tha aW1l rtn V f mw wimw IaaImmIh 1 I ilAatlla hvHmMNIIlllMI am Cah...
.wW HHIIUI.U URI II L 1 II K B 1U Kit. I a-- " .mw
tnsny of them br women, and all of .the securing of eipert lecturing tal-l hostile hydroasroplsnes on Constat
them by Turkish painters, were plsc-'nt tne minimum expense.. Tbe a on the Rumsnlan coast of the
ed on view. Clitics familiar with Oc-lln"tl(u,e September 9. Black Sea, where several civilians
cldental painting and Judging the! 8an Tatrlclo, Aransas, Jim Wells, and children were wounded, was also
blblted by Occidental Ideals. ,M
ed very favorablr on manv:Cl
of them.
WILSON IS PRAISED
the best things for the table if the price be not
prohibitive. She can have them by trading
at this grocery. We have solved the prcblca
of how to combine high quality with low pri
ces. Give us a trial this month and we will
show you. .
Reid Bros.
rn . - , ... I, J
RAILROADS
SLOW
Mill
iiniiu
REPORTS
About One-Half Railroads Operating
In Texas Subject to Heavy Fine
for Not Filing Report
0FA.af.iras
Lieutenant Emll H. Laurson of 11th
Cavalry Appointed Lieutenant
HIU Rejoins Regiment
President Blzzell of the Aarlcul
al and Mechanical College announced
BY LABOR HEAD
8amul Gompers, President American
Federation of Labor, Praises
President's Administration.
4 Rv AmmnrfmttJI Ptiak.- -
ewlstown. Me, Sept i 4. Samuel
Gompers, president of the American
Federation of Labor, in his Labor Day
address here todsy, praised the WU-
v.uemai immune ana judging WO 1 "l,-,ui iu"i iui eua, nw-nwsu, nmm mimv mvu uuiiuil)iruua ior IIS BCniBTe-
work exhibited by Occidental Ideals. ,Rofu,' Brooks snd Nueces are the-announced. . Iment In tbe Interest of the labor
commented very favorably on many ; counties. It Is required that all pub-'n fiohtlng yesterday north of the 'movement, and denounced the decls-
of them. ic school teachers In the seven coun- oomme tne British captured German Ions of tbe supreme court In the Dan-
The Jury of award was headed by.tle 'ho nTe either written or oral defenses on a three thousand yard 1 bury Hatters and Arixona Anti-Alien
the Crand Vlxler. himself a painter. ntracts for teaching during the so- front for an average depth of eight Law cases, which he said were parti-
He has been empowered to have ,Pachlng scholastic year attend. The hundred yards artd Including the vll-jclpated la by Charles H. Hnfb.es, thi
struck off medallions to be awarded at attendance of 450 teachers was sntl- la0 of Guillemont says the Eritish .Republican nominee
the t
contemplated for the future
'BUM REACHES
.official statement Ths whole of dency.
the
for the rresl-
Gompers defended the attl
o exhibitions annually thtt r cipaiea.
V TnilrnrlnM mwA ImIhhm Giflfthw Aj mm inlilMil hi., tttm D I. I. U . J . . . I 1 . V. 1 a . . . .
. m-wi .mi immioii i ui iim - --i ww hi. ui i.i.ii li: uo vi iu uruioeraouQ leauers in ir C
five days Include State Supterlntend- w,r eompelled to give ground, re-'threatened railroad strike snd while
nt rWtnptitv TW Tt D Tt.iAn talnlnn nap nl (hi wlllanA v.. Mi.A t-. i j . . n-n . .,.
w . . w , at , ... ... uia.ru, JI 7BI- V - -1 - wvwhi.w wv l auoi-A XICBlUfllt n UWQ IVT 1114
dent of Tevaa A anil W rnlln- rw hesvv counter attaeka. Tha Rrlti.h 'nffnrt. ..tti. .k. 1.
I - m. vwitii.., mst , 0 - - u.u. .a .v whuv w vvuiiuioii, UTJ
Jl. T. Mussellman of Dallas, and Prof, taok o'Bht hundred prisoner!. .unqualifiedly denounced any attempt
c. B. Evans, president of San Macos I ne rrsncn position on ths Somme at legislation to compel arbitration. .
GERMAN
BAT
fltate Normal.
Full Dress Uniforms. Gold Lace, Etc,
Ordered Cut Out by Order Just
Issued by ths Kslser.
Kiel. Bept 4. (Correspondence ' of
The Associated Press.) Tbe cry of
economy has now reached the Ger
- man navy, tt Indicated by an order
Just Issued by the kaiser which abol
ishes the, full dress uniform of offi
cers. Henceforth, accordingly, Ger
man naval officers will make a mudi
less "stunning" Impression on gala oc
casion a. The gold embroidery on the
collar and down the legs of the trous
ers Is a thing of the "past, and with It
goes two-pointed hats.
Prayer that Is long drawn out Is apt
to be narrow.
FORMER AMBASSADOR
TO AUSTRIA DIES
.Is retarded by bad wsathsr, but east
J of the Mouse the French took four
hundred prisoners.
I The Russlana hava croaaad tha
-Labor Day this rear" he ssld.
"finds the trade union movement In
tie United SMtts In a stronger posi
tion than over before.
Austin, Te, Sept. 4. Only about
one-half of tbe railroad corporations
In Texas have thus far filed with the
rauroaa commission weir annual re-,tne receipt of a telegram from the
ports for the fiscal year ending June adjutant general of the United States
30,1916. Blanks upon which to make jarmy advising that Lieutenant EmU
these reports were -sent out over two H. Laurson. Eleventh cavalry, now
months sgo snd the time for filing stationed in Mexico, has been detailed
these reports without Incurring a pen-'as commandant of cadets and profes
alty expired on Sept. 1. Those rail- aor of military arlenr mil i.,iu .
.Toads delinquent may face a heavy the Agricultural and Mechanical Col.
penalty altho the commission haa al- lege.
ways been disposed to be lenient with Lleutensnt Laurson graduated from
the Texaa lines and a lew days grace Weat Point la 190 and has bad oosw
msy be allowed before any action is tlnuous service In tke Eleventh cay.
Uken. Included In the list of those ,iry since that time. He has recently
who have as yet not filed their re- been promoted to a captaincy which
porta are quite a number of the lar 'win become effective before 'he ea
ger lines of tbe state. Another warn- fume, his duties at the college. Lien
Ing may be sent to the delinquent tenant Laurson 1 succeeds First Lieu
before any draetlc action is taken .. tenant James R. HII! of the Thlr
the railroad commission. ;tMsntn ctIry who ba Wn ordere4
u join nis regiment In Mexico on the
Sth of September,
j Many Inquiries are coming to the
college authorities concerning the
concera.'ons thst will be made to the
cadets this year under tbe terms of
the national defense act Dr. BUtell
stated that all efforts have failed to
Two Mexicans Get Into Argument obtain fmm tha v H.Mrtmi .
- " " aw a)ViaM IIHVHI V
and Negro Takee One Side and Washington definite 'Information on
Inflicts Bsd Wound. this subject
"Sections 40 to Jl," he said, "of the
A very serious cutting affair was national defns act ratal. aiaiffe.i.
MEM SERIOUSLY
STABDED BY
i;
EORO
Richard C Kern DJsd This Mornlne
at ths Home of His Daughter
In Phlladslphla.
(By Associated Press.)
St Louis. Mo., Sept 4. Richard C.
Kern, former ambassador to Austria,
Usui ttila MAmln. a . IV. Kama m 1.1a
daughter in Philadelphia, Ho had.l",0'r th,t he to ,n ,0Te ""N
f skMsvl IMt filrfvl11sB fiatntrvlsifF Vklerht tM . k s i m .
Tnenlovk , T ws'of .VetiuUry Cement rer tTffpJft ?"? f? "
of the Zlol. Llpa. seltsd the Doslt.o!cf the neonlo f.,r mor. f,im r. I1 p Camm a Mexican, with a for the maintenance of this con, and
of the Austr-Hungsrisn. and tek I ...ce and for a better anr. 7VSr tmlTm'' ipmmt
2.721 prl.on.rs and six machlns oun life". " ttt' Cm,n "d "olh" Mm,c" of tranaporteUon provided by
Patregrad announces.
The Bulgarians ware repulsed by
ths Serbians In an attack an tha
Macedonian front west of Lake Os-
rove. It wss announced by the French
headquarters at Salonika.
And many a young man doesnt
r..Y.EPB
STILL DECREASING
for
(By AsMdated Prraa.)
New Tork. Sept 4. The Infantile
n lauma- neeim ror a rang lime ,B er7 borough In tbe city.
I. a 1.1. v.. v m.M Mn a diplomatic way. .... ..'
ui" u..iu uau urea vapacioa
hourly for several days. . Don' T o wess a
hourly for several days,
The demand for twins never ex
ceeds the supply. ,
womsn's age,
Taxe it for granted thst she Is some-
were in a very nested argument aal tha rnitaH ri.m
the Godwin negro took aides la the tsdeu In military Institutions,
affair and after a hard tussle wltht "The fiscal year or tha ri.ii.vi
Carron pulled bis knife and started 'states anvarnmant iu ini. i
cutting. The large artery on the and K Is presumed that the benefits
juiaaa oecB leading 10 bis nearx or this act wui accrue for the carreut
was severed and before medical aid scholastic year, and aa the act waa
could be secured he almost bled to approved by the President oa June S.
A a. . a a., .a a
ueam ana loaay lime nope la enter- m. Many cadeu enrolled la tha
talned for bis recovery. Sheriff T. vollece desire to enllat In tha raaara
C. Nunn and his deputies were Imme- officers' training corps and the col
dlately notified of the trouble and lece authorttiea are aianina- av.r.
were soon oa the scene of the crime, fort to secure permission to reorgaa
according to the reports by the health
department Only forty new esses. II" 00 n Kmt r cr,m"- to to secure permission to reorgaa.
ain. nrf.... ...i.... Tbe Godwin negro was arrested snd lxa thla eorna al tha Miua iinri.. tha
... ..j . .v. a . w ... .... (brought to Jail, where he will be held -n-r..i ..a .u. ..i...
"I,-1"". . J V U V V.VIVJ. ..I, IWI. ... , M .
what older than she thinks she looks, ported todsy and the death list drop. brou" H whr o current year and to' secure th
and let It go at thst 'ped tn,m twenty to sixteen. The to- lwa,,ln tn oot,n- e Injurlea. benefiU authorised by the Uw
v . . . ible among the nlantera thla moraine m. a.i. .
K-i.. . gwggB?BTBa--a aj number of cases In this city have " r'""'r" ine oeiay on the part of the War
'''mmmmmMa, . wwiwwwkmiiiwkm - r --M1 , u ...r . u been 1,237, with t.004 deaths, since aa-MssptaBSBssBtsBBssssasBSBBSHSBssssBBBi department Is probably dae to tha
f we, j,- jthe plague started severer months ;for 00,10,1 P0 as tbe worst yet veto of the army appropriation bill.
i M MB ni 'mm 9 M v I .M i seen this fall. One nlantar waa haawl Which haa ottl mmhII. h.rf mli...
Free-Yon Get It For DIothins-Free
W
The No-York Ice Cream Freezer
The latest and best thing out, An ICE CREAM FREEZER built like a thermos
bottle, no crank, no cogs, no turning or no. work to freeie cream. Simply put In your
cream and pack with Ice. In thirty minutes your cream Is ready to serve. ' If not used
Immediately it will keep for hours. PRICE $3.00 EACH.
WE HAVE SIX OF THESE WONDERFUL NO WORK ICE CREAM FREEZERS
TO GIVE TO THE FIRST SIX LADIES BUYING A HOOSIER KITCHEN CABINET.
Thegreatest Ubor saving device on the market, "It saves miles of steps." Sold only
by us at the regular advertised price. We show several handsome styles.
$1.00 SENDS IT TO YOUR HOME, $1.00 A WEEK PAYS FOR IT.
It will make It easy for you to do your work; It will be easy for you to pay for It
iWi.aaaaMaaa.Maa..i i . - - j
t
LABOR DAY CEL
,E-
DRATIQ
i:
ft inr i inirr
u-AI.LUb.ll
Is
the
Rush of Fall wetness In Bryan
Cause of Light Cslsbrstlen ef
Labor Day In the City.
"Labor Day" celebrations In
city of Bryan today were very light
The cause for this fart la given that
the fall rush which Is now noon us
.would not allow the merchants, the
bankers and the farmers to lose a day
I'celebrstlng. The loss of a whole day
now In Draios county would tnesn
much to every one and business has
I gone forward Just the ssme. Aside
I from the Cotton Exchange and the
postofftre being closed, business In all
( lines went forward Just the same as
any other time. Tha rush and scram-
iseen this fall.
to remark that Just as long aa cotton atloa by Congress and passed again
waa onnging it cents per pound be vrlth thi President's objections eUn
had no time to celebrate Labor Day Insted. It Is still believed thst the
or any other day. .college will receive" the benefits of
The crowd In the dtr tradlne- waa the act for tbe currant vaar. ahhnnvh
much larger than nrual for Monday the uniforms thst the government win
and showed business Is picking p la provide may not be available until the
the busy little city -of Bryan. lste fall
i
aMaaaAllaaMaajMAMHMwvwvaaaajaV4iw
VE!C0irT VAIi? YOUR DAM ACCODIiT
Dat 7e Da Vtst Yea Attt;U:a 1
We want to remind you that vc sell every
.thing for the home. .Wc would like to show,
you our stock of 'Furniture and Convince
you that HERE is the logical point at which
to make your purchases.
b. T. JAHCG, Furnituro
WlsMaMaMa
