1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
VOL. LVI1I. NO. 229
NORWICH, CONN., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1916
TEN PAGES 80 COLUMNS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwic' oub!e That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut . in Proportion to the City's Population
! ixy
DEFEAT OF TEUTONIC
ALLIES IN DOBRUJA
The Invaders Are Retiring to the South and Are Burn
ing Villages in Their Retreat
WAS CLIMAX OF VON MACKENZEN'S CAMPAIGN
Great L'attle Began September 15th and Ended on the 20th
Rumanians, Russians and Serbians Were Pitted Against
the German, Bulgarian and Turkish Troops Berlin Re
ports Repulse of Russians in Mass Formations in the
Region of Lutsk, Voihynia September Rains Are Im
peding the Operations on the Western Front in France
No Action of Importance is Chronicled on the Austro
Italian Front.
The German, Bulgarian and Turkish
troops under Meld -Marshal von Mack
tnzen have been defeated in the Ru
manian province of Dobrudja, accord
ing to the unofficial announcement
from Bucharest. It is declared that
the invaders have retired to the south
and are burning villages in their re
treat. The gTeat battle, which was the cli
max of Von Mackenzen's swift cam
paign in the Lobrudja district imme
diately after the declaration of war
by Rumania, began on Sept. 15 and
ended, says Rumanian headquarters,
on the 20th.
With reference to these operations
Berlin merely says that 'fighting in
Dobrudja has come to a standstill."
Rumanians, Russians and Serbians
were pitted against the invaders,
strong reinforcements having been
hurried to Dobrudja, when the opera
tions under the noted German field
marshal threatened to overwhelm a
section of Rumania. A strong line to
the north was hastily fortiiied and
powerful forces were thrown out to
oppose the onslaughts of the central
powers. That the six days' battle has
been a sanguinary one was indicated
by various official statements, which
told of the intensity of the fighting
that has continued without cessation.
With the September rains still im
peding the operations on the western
front in France, interest in the world
warfare has been transferred to the
Russian, Rumanian and Macedonian
theatres, where violent fighting Is in
progress.
Encounters have taken place along
the twelve-mile battle line in the re
gion of Lutsk, Voihynia, where the
Russians attacked repeatedly in mass
THREE VOYAGES BEGUN ON
FRIDAY ENDED IN DISASTER
Experience of Captain George Birnie
of Schooner Lucia Porter.
Boston, Sept. 21. The sailor's super
stition that a voyage begun on Friday
is an unlucky one has been impressed
again on Captain George Birnie of the
Portland schooner Lucia Porter, who
arrived here today with six members
of his crew on the steamship Cretic
and reported that his vessel had been
wrecked 600 miles west of the Azores.
"Disaster has ended my last three
voyages," Captain Birnie said. "I be
gan them all on Friday, because I
thought that superstition was a dream.
Now I have decided I'll never sail
again if I have to start on that day."
In February the i,ucia Porter was
stripped of her sails and her seams
opened in a storm off the Maine coast
and in May the schooner was tossed
upon the beach at Sv.-ampscott, almost
a wreck, and her crew taken off In a
life buoy.
After his vessel had been rebuilt.
Captain Birnie set out again from St.
John, N. B., on Friday, Aug. 11. not
withstanding the warning of old salts.
The schooner had been out only a
few days on her voyage to Las Palmas
with a cargo of pine when she was
beset by adverse storms. The waters
filled her hold and swirled about the
decks, Captain Birnie said, tossing the
lumber about so wildly that some of
the crew were injured.
Captain Birnie said he and his crew
were forced to seek refuge on the af
ter deck house. Their limited supply
of biscuits and water wa3 almost ex
hausted and the men were in a highly
nervous state when the British tramp
steamer Knight of the Garter picked
them up on "Eer voyage from Norfolk
for Italy and landed them at Gibral
tar. TIGHTENING NET ABOUT
SYNDICATE OF BLACKMAILERS
Arrests in Chicago and Elsewhere Are
to Be Followed. Up.
Washington, Sept. 21. Prosecution
of the alleged blackmailers' gang,
whose operators were uncovered by
arrests in Chicago and elsewhere will
be followed up with renewed vigor as
the result of the two days' confer
ence here of special deuartment of
justice agents, which concluded this
afternoon. All the directing heads of
the investigation, who have been put
ting thmeir Information together and
matching various angles so as to
tighten the government net about the
members of tie gang, left for their
homes tonight.
CIVIC RIGHTS RESTORED
TO FRENCH SOLDIERS.
Convicts Rewarded on Account of
Some Signal Action at the Front.
Paris, Sept. 20. More than 700
French soldiers who had, before the
war, been convicted of some offense
that Involved the loss of civic rights,
have been rehabilitated since April,
1915. on account of eome signal action
at the front.
A law passed April , 1915, provides
that the criminal record of every sol
dier cited in etie orders of the day ot
the army may be cancelled on appli-
formation but only, according to both
Berlin and Vienna, to meet with re
pulse and heavy casualties. The bat
tle is still raging in the region of Ko
rytniza and Sviniusky.
To the north along the Stokhod
River the Germans assumed the offen
sive against the Russians, but every
where were repulsed, according to Pe
trograd. On the other hand attacks
by the Russians against the Austro
Hungarians in the Narayuvka River
region of Galicia were put down by
the defenders of the road to Lemberg.
In the Carpathians both Berlin and
Vienna concede that the Teutonic line
east of the Panther ridge and near
Briaza has been pushed back by the
Russians.
In Macedonia, on the extreme west
ern wing, the entente forces have
pushed their way three miles north
west of Pisoderi, according to Paris.
Hard fighting for the Kaimakcalan
plateau, on the Greek-Serbo border,
northwest of Vodena, is in progress,
but with neither side having been able
to secure an advance. Sofia says that
near Fiorina counter-attacks by the
entente have been repulsed with heavy
casualties and the capture of prison
ers, among them Russians and also
machine guns.
Except for the repulse by the Ital
ians of an Austrian attack south of
Villa Nova, on the Carso "front, there
have been only bombardments in this
region. Thursday on the front in
France was without noteworthy inci
dent. A revolutionary provisional govern
ment has been set up on the island of
Crete, according to unofficial advices,
which add that a committee of revo
lutionists is to be sent to Saloniki.
SCIENTISTS ON A WORLD
TOUR OF RESEARCH WORK
On Non-Magnetic Yacht Carnegie-
Have Been on Trip Sinch March, 1915.
San Francisco, Sept. 21. The non
magnetic yacht Carnegie, carrying a
party of eastern scientists on a world
tour of research work, put in here to
day from Lytelton.. N. Z. The expe
dition has been on its present cruise
since it left New iork in March, 191o.
Since then its range has been the Pa
cific ocean from the Aleutian Is
lands in the north to the Anatahtic
ice packs.
J. C. Ault is master of the vessel.
which is fitted with an auxiliary gas
oline engine, built of bronze. The
yacht's anchor is of copper. In the
party are J. A. Luke of the University
of Kansas; F. C. Loring of Purdue
and' Columbia universities and Brad
ley Jones of the Boston Institute of
Technology, S. S. Johnson, student
of atmospheric conditions in the orig
inal party out of New York, left the
ship at Lytelton. The scientists made
corrections in many ocean charts,
which they found wrong as a result
of their investigation. Charts of the
Indian Ocean, which they cruised,
they found sixteen or more degrees
wrong, they said.
In the Antartic the expedition made
a futile search for Dougherty Is
land, reported discovered by Captain
John Dougherty in 1820. The party
also visited South George Island, the
base of Lieutenant Shackleton's re
cent expedition.
SENATOR REED REPLIES
TO ATTACK OF HUGHES
Declared That the Republican Nom
inee Generally Had Supported the
Railroads.
Springfield 111. Sept. 21. Senator
James A. Reed of Missouri in a speech
here today at a state democratic ral
ly replied to the attacks of Charles E.
Hughes on the Adamson railroad law,
declaring that Hughes had supported
the railroads, and that "if Hughes had
had his way we would have been at
this moment engulfed in a catastro
phe so enormous as to appall the
imagination."
Senator Reed charged Mr. Hughes
with declaring "insubstance and effect
that union labor, like a highwayman
with declaring "in substance and effect
and compelled it to enact an eight
hour law and that congress in a cow
ardly and truckling manner surrend
ered the dignity of the nation to the
unlawful and violent demand of labor.
"Naturally Mr. Hughes takes this
view. It is the assertion of at least
some of the railway presidents, it is
not the first time Mr. Hughes has
taken the side of the railroads."
Senator Reed then cited instances
in which Mr. Hughes, he said, when
governor of New York, had vetoed a
jtwo cent fare bill, a full crew bill and
a five cent err f"- bill. After reading
Ir. Hughes Btmtement that the Adam
son law aoet, pi-ovide an eight hour
day but regulates wages, Senator Reed
charged that the republican presiden
tial candidate "when he delivered this
utterance might well have been accus
ed of plagarism, for the same speech
In almost Identical language was de
livered on the floor of the United
States senate by such champions of
the people as Reed Smoot of Utah,
Jacob Gallinger of New Hampshire
and Boiaa Pm;ftF ot ?fnn"''-"ii j'
Cabled Paragraphs
Greek Steamer Sunk.
London, Sept. 21. 10.20 p. m. The
Greek steamer Ashimacos was sunk
on September 11, according to a
Llyod's report. The crew were land
ed. Turkish Troops on the Riga Front.
London, Sept. 21. 9.04 p. m. Turk
ish troops have appeared on the Riga
front, says a Reuter despatch from
Peti6"grad. They are led by German
and Austrian officers and their whole
equipment Is German.
Charged With Murder of Missionaries.
Toklo, Sept. 22. Hitomi Kawakami,
a former soldier, has been arrested on
a charge of murdering the Rev. W. A.
Campbell and his wife, Canadian mis
sionaries, in July. The police alleged
that the man has confessed.
PROMINENT BROOKLINE ITALIAN
FATALLY SHOT IN STREET
An Unknown Assailant Fired Five
Shots as Victim Left Street Car.
Boston, Sept. 21.--Gaspare Di Cola,
a wealthy importer and wholesale fruit
dealer, died today as a result of
wounds inflicted by an unknown man
who shot him five times near his home
in Brookline last night. The Brook
line police early in the day had found
no trace of his assailant.
Mr. Di Cola was shot just after leav
ing a street car on his return from a
meeting of Italians in Boston in cele
bration of the anniversary of the cap
ture of Rome by the Italian army in
1S70. His wife, who accompanied him,
said that two men approached them
and without saying anything one or
both opened fire. Di Cola fell and
the men ran off. Before his death at
the hospital to which he was taken,
Di Cola said that he did not know
who had done the shooting and knew
of no motive which anyone could have
had for the act.
Di Cola was president of the Bost,
Italian Red Cross Society and a prom
inent member of the Society Dante
Alighieri.
ACTION DEFERRED ON
MASONIC BENEVOLENCES
Supreme Council Postpones Establish
ment of a Foundation.
Pittsburgh, Pa.. Sept. 21. The one
hundred and fourth annual meeting of
the Supreme Council, thirty-third de
gree. Ancient Accepted Scottish Rite
of Free Masonry, northern Jurisdic
tion, closed here late today after de
ciding to postpone final action on the
plan to establish a foundation for Ma
sonic benevolences and charities un
til next year.
The council named two honorary
members to become active members
of the council ad vitnm. They were
Henry M. Ross, Burlington, Vt.; and
George L. Holmes, Providence, R. I.
The office of grand organist emeritus
was conferred upon Solon Stevens of
.hoston. who has been organist of the
Supreme Council for many years but
who was unable to attend this session
because of infirmities of age.
CALDER LEADS BACON
BY 8,934 VOTES.
Returns in From All But 47 Districts
Calder's Victory Conceded.
New York. Sept. 21. Returns from
all but forty-seven districts in Tues
day' primary election give William M.
Calder a majority of 8,934 votes over
Robert. Bacon in the contest for the
republican nomination for United
States senator. Calder's vote is 151,
379 and Eacon's 142.445. The returns
from the missing districts will not
be large enough to change the result.
LARGE CHICAGO BAKERY
RAISES PRICE OF BREAD
From Five to Six Cents a Loaf Other
Bakers Expected to Follow.
Chicago, Sept. 21. The price of
bread was raised from five to six cents
a loaf by one of the largest baking
firms in Chicago to-day. Other bakers
are expected to follow. Th advance
was necessary, it was declared, because
of the higher cost of materials, and
customers were advised that economy
would be effected by purchasing the
ten cent loaves.
OBITUARY.
Dr. Adoniram Judson.
New York, Sept. 21. Dr. Adoniram
Brown Judson. recognized as an au
thority on orthopaedic surgery and
public health, died here yesterday at
the age of 79 years. Dr. Judson was a
graduate of Brown university and
Harvard Medical school.
Theodore P. Terry.
Ansonia, Conn., Sept. 21. Theodore
P. Terry, 82, the oldest merchant in
Ansonia, died at his home here last
night. He was born in Bristol, Conn,
and after learning the trade r' clock
mawer, settled in Ansonia where he
started in the hardware business. He
was known as the oldest hardware
merchant in the state. A son, Frank
T. Terry, who now conducts the hard
ware business and two married
daughters survive.
Miss Mary Wright Plummer.
New York, Sept. 21. "Word was
received here today of the death, in
Dixon, 111., of Miss Mary Wright
Plummer, former president of the
American Library Association, She
studied at Wellesley college and Co
lumbia university, where she was a
member of the first class in this coun
try to study science.
In 1900 Miss Plummer was a dele
gate to the International Congress of
Libraries at the Paris Exposition. She
books of travel. Her presidential
aaaress, -me ruDiio LiDrary and the
Pursuit of Truth," at the national
convention of the American Associa
tion at Asbury Park this summer at
tracted wide attention.
O0 9j,iVELT AND TAFT
TO ATTEND RECEPTION
In Honor of Charles E. Hughes at
Union League Club, New York.
New York, Sept. 21. Theodore
Roosevelt and William H. Taft it was
announced tonight, have accepted in
vitations to attend a reception in
honor of Charles E. Hughes at the
Union League club here on October
3. Elihu Root, president of the club,
will preside.
Good Work by German Aviator.
Berlin. Sept. 21, via London, Sept.
2,2 2.05 a. m. "Captain Boelke, Ger
many's most famous aviator, on Wed
nesday brought down two entente ae
roplanes, making his record 28 ma-
Some Details of
Villa's Latest Coup
BANDIT CHIEF PERSONALLY LED
ATTACK ON CHIHUAHUA
PROMISED TO RETURN
Took and Held Numerous Important
Buildings in the City for Several
Hours Joined by a Thousand Men
of the Carranza Garrison.
Washington, Sept. 21. The most de
tailed account yet received of the fight
at Chihuahua City last Saturday, when
Villa celebrated the Mexican Indepen
dence day by a successful assault on
the Carranza garrison, reached the war
department today from Brigadier Gen
eral George Bell, commanding the El
Paso military district. It asserts that
Villa personally led the attacking
forces; that he took and held numerous
important buildings in the city for
several hours; that he was joined by
a thousand or more men of the Car
ranza garrison, and retired, promising
to return soon, and taking with him a
large qjnantity of captured arms, am
munition and artillery.
Source of information Not Known.
General Bell's despatch does not
show the source of his information,
and many officials believe his account
of the incident was founded on ru
mors reaching the border, as were
various stories which have been trans
mitted by state department agents.
They were inclined to believe for that
reason that the full truth of what
transpired is not yet known. Re
ports so far received are similar only
in that they show a fight did occur on
Sept. 16 and that the Villa followers
took the penitentiary and some other
buildings. They all conflict as to the
part Villa played, not even agreeing
that he was present.
Reports Forwarded to New London.
All reports received are being for
warded to New London, Conn., for the
information of the Mexican-American
commission. It is regarded as prob
able that an official version will be
forwarded there soon by General Car
ranza. No official would predict what effect
the incident may have on the negotia
tions at New London, whieh. embiace
General Carranza's request that Amer
ican troops be withdrawn from JVIexT
ico. It was deemed certain, however,
that no agreement could be reached by
the commissioners until it was known
precisely to what extent the situation
in northern 'Mexico had been altered
by the Chihuahua City developments
and until it was made clear what the
Carranza government would do to cope
with the new situation.
Many Officers Believe Villa Dead.
Many army officers still believe either
that Villa is dead or that his power is
so thoroughly broken that he could
not hope to re-establish himself. Gen
eral Pershing expressed the latter
opinion in a report to the war depart
ment some weeks ago, and General
Funston's recommendation that the
American troops be withdrawn is be
lieved to have been founded on that
view. If General Bell's reports prove
accurate, however, and Villa did ap
pear in person at Chihuahua, it is ex
pected that the fact will be established
definitely by witnesses whose evidence
could be accepted without question.
Pershing's Forces Not Involved.
It is thought unlikely that General
Pershing's forces will be involved in
any new fighting in Mexico even if the
most favorable account for Villa of tho
Chihuahua battle proves true. The
nearest American detachment is more
than 100 miles north of Chihuahua and
the main body still farther away. No
matter what successes the ymight
achieve in surprise attacks upon Car
ranza posts, the bandits are not ex
pected to risk an attack upon the
Americans, ana the latter could not go
out in pursuit of the raiders without
new orders from Washington.
GENERAL CONDITIONS
IN MEXICO DISCUSSED
By American-Mexican Commission
Confident of Reaching Agreement.
New London, Conn., Sept. 21. Con
fidence in their ability to find a so
lution of the border and other prob
lems affecting the relations between
Mexico and the United States charac
terized the attitude of the members
of the Mecan-Amerocan joint com
mission ttfday, notwithstanding the
virtual certainty that no definite agree"
ment on any plan will be reached this
week.
General conditions in Mexico were
discussed again and the American
members submitted more reports ga
thered by the state department on
conditions in Mexico. In a rather
general way the subject of withdraw
ing the American troops was talked
over, the Mexicans expressing their
opinion that General Carranza's army
was capable of coping with the situa
tion in the region now patrolled by
General Pershing's forces.
That the renewed activity of Villa
in Chihuahua probably would delay an
agreement on some plan of border con
trol, apparently was taken by the
Mexicans as a matter of course.
AGAINST CENSORSHIP
OF MOTION PICTURES
Action of Board of Directors of Na
tional Association.
New York, Sept. 21. The board of
directors or the National Association
of the Motion Picture Industry voted
unanimously here today against fed
eral or state censorship of motion pic
tures. After three hours' discussion
of the subject in executive session, the
following resolution was adopted:
"It is the sense of the board of di
rectors of this industry that we are
opposed to the legal censoring of any
motion picture in any state or in the
nation.
Representatives of some of the fifty
nine branches affiliated with the Na
tional Association at first favored fed
eral censorship in preference to state
or local censorship, but after the sub
ject had been discussed thoroughly,
their views in that respect were
changed and the thirty members of the
Doara or directors, which is the gov
erning body in the industry, adopted
tne resolution.
One ton of whale blubber will Yield
Gun on Battleship
Michigan Explodes
DURING FIRST TESTS ON SOUTH
ERN DRILL GROUNDS
ONE MAN WAS INJURED
The Michigan Has Been Ordered to
the Philadelphia Navy Yard for Re
pairs and Investigation of the Ex
plosion. Washington, Sept, 21. Admiral
Mayo, commanding the Atlantic fleet,
reported today that a 12-inch gun on
the battleship Michigan had exploded
yesterday during tirst tests on the
southern drill grounds, the muzzle be
ing blown to pieces, seriously injuring
one man. The Michigan was ordered
to the Philadelphia navy yard for re
pairs and investigation of the explo
sion. The name of the injured man
was not given in the admiral's report.
GREATER ELASTICITY IN
COUNTRY'S TARIFF SYSTEM
Submitted in Committee Report to Na
tional Foreign Trade Council
New York .Sept. 21. Greater elas
ticity in the country's tariff system is
necessary to meet trade conditions
which will arise at the close of the
Council today by a committee which
has investigated the foreign trade as
pects of the tariff.
Calling attention to the readjust
ment of the tariff relations at the close
of the conflict and the possibility that
the present belligerents will seek re
ciprocal concessions from one another
and from neutrals, the committee's
report continues;
'All European nations will with
peace have a large market to offer and
may be expected to yield it only for
opportunities to extend or protect
from discrimination their foreign
trade. The United States is normally
the best customer of the United King
dom and is one of the most profitable
markets for France, Germany and all
tne other belligerents.
"With the exception of the United
Kingdom all the belligerents have in
tneir tariff systems ample resources
for negotiations for tariff advantages
and for retaliation against discrimina
tion.
"The foregoing circumstances show
the necessity for greater elasticity
than now obtained in the American
tariff system, regardless of whether
the tariff is maintained for protection
or for revenue or partially for each.
lt. is oovious that the-United States
should have some method of adjust
ing the tariff to new conditions by
political or commercial changes on the
part of our competitors and our cus
tomers, without resorting to a general
revision. The creation of the tariff
commission should contribute to this
end."
DANISH ACTION ON SALE
OF DANISH WEST INDIES
Probable That Matter Will Be Settled
by General Election.
Copenhagen, Sept. 21, via London,
7.55 p. m. The committee of repre
sentatives of various political parties
which is discussing the government's
bill for a settlement of the sale of
the Danish West Indies by an examin
ation of the question by a parliamen
tary committee and a plebiscite, has
printed a report stating that all par
ties agree that the parliamentary com
mittee shall finsh its work in six
weeks. The Left party, being in a
majority in the landsthing, will claim
that the committee's report shall be
published everywhere in Denmark and
that the report, together with the sale
treaty, shall be submitted to the rls
dag for action, and that afterwards a
plebiscite. vgether with general elec
tions, shall take place in Denmark and
a plebiscite, together with general
elections, shall take place in Denmark
and a plebiscite be held in the Dan
ish west Indies.
The Conservative party leaves to the
government the mode of procedure
after the parlimentary committee has
made its report. The radicals and
socialists say they will adopt the gov
ernment's bill without change.
VIGOROUS PROHIBITION
CAMPAIGN IN CALIFORNIA
Speakers Urged the Destruction of
Vineyards if Necessary.
Bakersfield, Cal, Sept. 21. Hundreds
of boys and girls from public schools
swarmed about the prohibition special
train here today and the speakers,
taking their cue from them, urged
Californians to save their children by
destroying the vineyards if necessary.
Speaking at Porterfield, J. Frank
Hanly, the pjrohibition presidential
candidate, declared that Charles E.
Hughes' promise that he would pro
tect children was empty.
"Hughes," he said, "is so strongly
allied with the liquor traffic that he
does not dare speak out against it."
GOOD SCORES IN TARGET
PRACTICE AT PLATTSBURG
Twenty-Seven Men Qualify s Expert
Riflemen.
Plattsburgh, N. Y., Sept. 21. When
the tenth training regiment had com
pleted target practice tonight, 27 men
had qualified as expert riflemen, 135
as sharpshooters and 316 as marks
men. J. S. Howe of Boston finished
with a total of 224 out of a possible
250, the highest score of the regimenf.
Charles W. Isbell of New York scored
212: M. W. Andrews of Hartford,
Conn.. 223 and M. Leroy Demarest of
Tenafly. N. J., 214.
The practice march and manoeuvers
of the tenth will begin Monday and
continue for eleven days.
Burial of General Mills.
West Point N. Y., The body of
Major General Albert A. Mills, chief of
the militia division of the general
staff of the United States army, who
died in Washington on Monady, was
burned in the post cemetery at the
United States military academy with
full military honors.
Movements of Steamships.
Cadiz, Sept. 19. Arrived, steamer
Monteerrat, New York.
New York, Sept. 21. Cailed, steamer
Condensed Telegrams
The Italian liner Verona, arrived at
New York from Genoa.
Exports of cotton for the week end
ed Sept. 16 were 93,690 bales.
Exports from the port of New York
for August totaled 288,732,073.
Application was made for a receiver
for the City Railway Co., of Mount,
Vernon, Illinois.
Canadian maples are to be planted
around the graves of the Dominion's
soldiers in France.
Exports from London, to the United
States during the eight months ended
Aug. 31, amounted to $11,241,898.
The Franklin and McCahan Sugar
refineries of Philadelphia advanced re
fined granulated 10 -points to 6.50.
Henry White, a negro, was lynched
at Durham, Ga., after he had confess
ed that he attacked a white girl.
Eckley B. Coxe, Jr., backer of the
University of Pennsylvania's Egyptian
archaelogical expeditions, is dead.
J. J. Finnegan, well known news
paper and magazine writer of New
York city, died after a long illness.
Two hundred laborers of the Rich
ardson & Boynton stove and range
Works at Dover, N. J., went on strike.
Celebrations were held throughout
Italy in corpmemoration of the anni
versary of completion of national uni
ty. Seven workmen were injured by an
explosion in the mixing house of the
du Pont powder works at Haskell, N.
J.
The loss of life in the Bohemian
flood resulting from the breaking of
the White Dess Dam may reach
1,000.
Deposits of national and state banks
and trust companies in Pittsburgh
now aggregate $551,843,293, a new high
record.
The annual meeting of the stock
holders of the Delaware, Lackawanna
& Western Coal Co. will be held on
Sept. 26.
For the seven months of the year
ended Aug. 31, the gross earnings of
the Chicago surface lines showed a
gain of $2,200,000.
More than 250 fur buyers from all
parts of the world, arrived at St.
Louis, for the $2,000,000 fur sale which
opened yesterday.
Joseph Linker of Yonkers. N. Y
was robbed of two medals conferred
on him by Emperor Francis oJseph of
Austria-Hungary.
The lives of nine persons were en
dangered when an attempt was made
to burn the home of George Kuike, at
Rockaway, N. J.
Two hundred men employed by the
Bergenport Chemical Co., a subsidiary
of the Standard Oil Co. at Bayonne,
N. J., went on strike.
Lord Derby, British Under-Secretary
for War, said nothing deflinte had been
decided regarding the raising of the
military age to 45 years.
Six persons were reported killed and
several others injured when the dry
house of the Aetna Explosives Co.,
near Altoona Pa., blew up.
Worth Museum, at New Castle, Ind.,
a private collection of relics and curi
os said to be the largest of its kinds
in America, was destroyed by fire.
Mayor Mitchell received word that
his mother, Mary Mitchel was ill at
the home of William Brown Meloney
at Quaker Hills, near Pawling, N. Y.
An eight hour day for train crews
and switch engine crews in the Pan
ama canal zone has been established
by Gov. Goethals by executive order.
The directors of the Bayonee, N. J.,
hospital announced that they would
soon start their campaign to raise
$75,000 for an addition to the building.
Lieut.-Commander Carleton D. Kear
of the United States Navy, retired,
arrived at Havana to become instruct
or at the Cuban naval school at 11a
riel. The supreme council, 33rd degree,
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of
Free Masonry of the northern juris
diction, decided to meet next year in
New York.
Accused of sending hreatneing let
ters to President Wilson, Morris Dia
mond of Bay City, Mich., was arrested
at Pittsburgh, and held for examin
ation into his sanity.
Admiral Caperton, commanding the
Pacific fleet .advised the Navy De
partment that there is little trouble in
Nicaragua as a result of the pending
presidential election.
Many lumber mills in southern Ala
bama will have to suspend unless the
car shortage is relieved, according to
notices to railroad managers at Mo
bile from lumber manufacturers. ,
The Ministry of Munitions at Lon
don announced that the total casual
ties In a recent explosion in a factory
making munitions for the British
army were 7 killed and 72 injured.
The Norwegian Premier stated in
an interview that Norway and Sweden
secretly agreed in August, 1914, not to
enter the war on opposite sides. No
agreement was reached between Nor
way and Denmark.
A special train on the Long Island
Railroad, carrying Governor WTiitman
to the Suffolk County Fair at River
head, N. Y., crashed into an automo
bile brewery truck at a crossing near
Cloverton, L. I., killing the driver and
his assistant.
CONSPIRACY TO KILL
ELIPTH ERIOS VENI2ELOS
Guard Surrounds House of Former
Premier of Greece.
Milan, via London, Sept. 22, 2.07 a.
m. A Saloniki despatch to the Secolo
says:
"A conspiracy to kill Eliptherios
Venizelos l;as been discovered, with
the result that the guard of Cretans
about his house hase been augmented
and friends accompany the ex-premier
when he goes out.
"Two lines of trenches have been
built around King Constantine's pal-
ace, which is constantly guarded by
ENERAL STRIKE IN
Efforts of Citizens' Committee to Effect a Settlement of
Transit Trouble Proved Fuitle
ALL NEGOTIATIONS HAVE COME TO AN END
Walkout of 700,000 Workers in Other Trades to Begin To
day Gompers With the Strikers "to the Last Ditch in
Their Fight for the Right to Organize" Mayor Mitchel
Informed Union Officials That Disorder Will be Sup
pressed With a Strong Hand President Shonts Declares
That No Union Men Will be Reinstated Extra Precau
tions Were Taken Last Night by the Police and There
, Are Now 6,700 Policemen on Strike Duty-
New York, Sept. 21. The threatened
general strike in sympathy with the
striking street car employes will be
called tomorrow, it was announced late
today by Ernest Bohm, secretary of
the Central Federated union. Bohm
made the announcement after a con
ference between labor leaders and a
citizens' committee which both he and
Mayor Mitchel declared had failed in
its efforts to avert the strike.
General Srike Inevitable.
The mayor's communication was. ad
dressed to Hugh Frayne, chairman of
the conference committee of labor
leaders, after a final effort to arrange
a peaceful settlement had failed, and
following the declaration that a gen
eral strike was inevitable.
The mayor made it plain that for the
union officials to "call this strike will
be to assume full responsibility for all
that may follow."
Mayor Warns Strikers.
"The mayor, representing the civil
forces of government in this city," the
letter declared, "feels it incumbent
upon him to say to you now, before
any further rash step is taken, that
these duties (to enforce law and main
tain order) the city government will
discharge to the full, employing, if
need be, its entire resources to that
end. Disorder, assaults and crimes of
violence, including injury to innocent
-itizens, such as those of Tuesday and
Wednesday, will be suppressed with a
strong hand and punished with all the
vigor at the command of the govern
ment." Reviewed the Causes.
The communication, which was con
curred in by Oscar S. Straus, chair
man of the public service commission,
reviewed at length the causes which
led to the present crisis. It stated
that the Interborough Rapid Transit
company, which operates the subway
and elevated lines, violated a verbal
agreement with the labor leaders by
refusing to arbitrate issues arising
subsequent to the making of the
agreement. It stated that, ton the
other hand, the employes of the New
York Railways company. and the other
surface lines affected by the strike
"were guilty of a breach" of contracts
they had made with their employers
which ended a tie-up in surface roads
in July. TJbe so-called final confer
ence was attended by Mayor Mitchel,
a citizens' committee and the labor
leaders. It ended in a deadlock. The
mayor later declared there was "no
solution in sight," while members of
the citizens' committee described the
situation as "hopeless," adding that
"it would appear that both sides would
have to fight it out."
HUGHES EXPOSES WILSON'S
MEXICAN POLICY.
Huerta Was to Be Put Down at Any
Cost.
Richmond, Ind., Sept. 21. Instruc
tions said to have been given by Pres
ident Wilson to John Lind, his per
sonal representative in Mexico, during
Huerta's time, were cited in speeches
by Charles E. Hughes at Fort Wayne
today and here tonight in support of
Mr. Hughes' denial that the adminis
tration sousbt to deal with small states
in the same spirit as with large states.
"I have only recently received this
authentic information of the actual in
structions that were given with respect
to the governmetn of 'Mexico, such as
Mexico then had," Mr. Hughes said.
"John Lind was authorized by the ex
ecutive to state this proposition to a
minister of another government, name
ly: " 'Huerta will be put out if he doesn't
get out. That it is the preference of
the president that it should be accom
plished by domestic, means, if possi
ble, but that if it cannot be done by
domestic means, other means adequate
for the purpose will be resorted to.'
"There is no basis for that In the
recognition of small states," Mr.
Hughes added. "There is no basis for
that in the recognition of the sove
reignty of our neighbor. There is no
basis for that in a true and correct
American policy. We departed from
an American policy and left our citi
zens to suffer from the barbarity which
resulted when all government was de
stroyed and anarchy was supreme in
Mexico. It is a deplorable recital."
EL PASO SEES WAR
STRENGTH DIVISION REVIEW
Mass of Human Fighting Material
1,200 Yards Long and 400 Yards
1200 Yards Long and 400 Yards Deep.
El Paso, Texas, Sept. 21. The war
strength division review which start
ed on it smarch at 8 o'clock this
morning did not see the last of its
units returned to the camp until a late
hour tonight. After its long detour
through the streets of EI Paso, it re
quired five hours and 32 minutes for
the line to pass the reviewing stand
at Fort Bliss, in which sat Major
General C. M. Clements of the Penn
sylvania guard, in whose honor the
review was tendered, and Brigadier
General George Bell, Jr., IT. S. A.,
commanding this district.
After passing the stand the men
were massed in close formation,
shoulder to shoulder and file against
file, forming a solid mass of human
fighting material 1,200 yards long and
400 yards deep, covering a space of
NEW YORK TODAY
Ernest Bohm, secretary of the Cen
tral Federated union, later asserted
that plans were completed for a sym
pathetic strike of 700,000 workers in
other trades and that the "walkout"
might begin tomorrow. .
Meantime the state bureau of media
tion and arbitration had sent notices to
the leaders of the striking carmen and
the heads of the transit companies
directing them to appear before the
board Monday, when, it was said,
hearings for the purpose of finding a
way out of the deadlock would be
started.
Gompers With the Strikers.
Samuel Gompers. president of the
American Federation of Labor, who
attended the mayor's conference, de
clared that he was with the strikers
"to the last ditch in their fight for the
right to organize."
President Shonts' Statement.',' '
Theodore P. Shonts, president of the
Interborough Rapid Transit and the
New York Railways companies, issued
a statement in which he declared that
"no union men will be reinstated" by
the Interborough." He said, however,
that former employes on the surface
cars of the New York Railways com
pany would be taken back, "provided
they came free of unionism." -
Merchants Condemn General Strike.
The Merchants' association at a
meeting today passed resolutions
characterizing the attempt of the un
ion leaders to effect a general strike'
as "a wanton disturbance of Industry"
and calling upon all public officials,
state, county and city, to enforce the
laws, "so that violations of order or
destruction of property shall be swift- s
ly and adequately punished."
Individual contracts between the
transit companies and their employes,
binding the latter not to seek wage
increases for two years, were uipheld;
by the association, which declared they
were not a subject for arbitration as
proposed by the strikers.
Police Take Extra Precautions. -
The police took extra precautions
tonight to prevent a recurrence of
rioting which already has resulted in
many Innocent persons being hurt,
considerable property damage and
more than 370 arrests. There are 6,70
policernen on strike duty.
Crosstown Cars in Operation.
An announcement by the New York
Railways company that, beginning ot
night, for the first time since the strike
began, Sept. 6th, five of the crosstown
surface lines would resume operation,
caused the police to redouble their ef
forts to prevent disorders.
MRS. GILLIGAN INDICTED
FOR FIRST DEGREE MURDER
Charged With! Poinoning Five In
mates of Her Home at Windsor.
Hartford, Conn.. Sept. 21. Mrs.
Amy E. Archer Gilligan, charged with
poisoning five inmates of her home
for elderly people at Windsor, was In
dicted, for first degree murder on five
counts by the grand jury late today.
Benedict M. Holden, counsel for
Mrs. Gilligan, announced that he was
not ready to proceed with the trial
and Judge Mi. S. Shumway ordered
the case continued to the December
term of the superior court. Mrs. Gil
ligan pleaded not guilty and was rei
manded to the county Jail without
bonds.
The state alleged that Mrs. Gilli
gan poisoned the following persons:
Mrs. Maude Lynch of Lakeville on
February 21, 1916; Franklin R. An
drews of Cheshire on May 30, 1914;
Charles A. Smith of Waterbury on
April 9, 1914; Michael W. Gilligan,
second husband of th& accused, on
February 20, 1914 and Mrs. Alice Gow
dy of Hartford, December 9, 1814.
Mrs. Gilligan was arrested on May
7, last, specifically charged with the
murder of Mr. Andrews, whose body
had been secretly exhumed. Since,
that time four bodies have been ex-
humed and th estate alleges that ev
idence of a powerful poison was found
In all the bodies. All tho "deaths oc
curred at .the Archer home.
Most of the Inmates were admitted
to the home, the state claims, after
contracts had been signed providing
for life care upon payment of $1,000-.
OPENING OF BOSTON PUPLIC
SCHOOLS AGAIN POSTPONED
Owing to the Prevalence of Infantile
Paralysis To Open Oct. 2.
Boston, Sept. 21. Owing to the pre
valence of infantile paralysis the
opening of the public schools was
again postponed by the school board
today from September 25 to October
2. The date previously had been
changed from September 11 to Sep--tember
25.
YALE BOARD OF HEALTH
TAKES PRECAUTIONARY STEPS
All Students Must Aver They Have
Not Been Exposed to Infantile Par
alysis. ,
New Haven, Conn., Sept. 21. The
Yale board of health announced to
night that all members of the dniver--sity
will be required to sign a state-""
ment that they have not been exposed
to infantile paralysis for a period -of
three weeks prior to the opening of
