Mumt
First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. SEPTEMBER 22, 1916.
NUMBER 31
"Put Me Off At Kuhio
Bay" Delegates Slogan
All Maui Men Wear Uniform Of White With Is
land Colors-Delegation Has Three
Boosting Songs
Sending fhe largest delegation which ever went from this island
to a civic convention, twenty delegates of the Maui Chamber of Com
merce left for llilo on Wednesday, attired in white with sashes of the
Main colors and reinforced with three songs which describe the charms
of the Valley Isle.
The songs, specially written by Mrs. D. II. Case and Washburn
l.aldwin, were an afterthought following the decision that the Maui
men must wear a distinctive and attractive uniform for the conven
tion trip. The uniforms selected consists of white shirts, while hats
white trousers and white shoes. Around the wasit each delegate wore
a long sash of black and yellow and a tie of similar hue.
During the past week and the latter part of last the delegates met
a number of times to rehearse their convention songs. Before they
left. all of them had memorized ihe words. Even though they knew
the songs, the delegates took printed copies along for distribution so
the other convention delegates can join in shouting Maui's worth.
I hat no mistake might be made as to where the Maui 'delegation
was headed, each delegate had a great yellow pennant on his suitcase
on which appeared the words : "J 'ut me off at Kuhio Bay." The deleg
ates boarded the Kiliauea at Lahaina where they joined the Honolulu
and Kauai delegations.
The three songs which the Maui delegation will sing for the delight
of the convention are entitled: "Sweet Maui," to the tune of "Sweet
Mane; My Dear Old Valley Isle," to the tune "Old Kentucky
Home, and "Maui's Out Tonight," with an air like "There'll Be A
Hot lime Tonight." The words for the last song were composed by
Baldwin and those for the first two by Mrs. Case.
The Maui convention delegation consisted of the following eentle
men : "
t L Wadsworth W. L. West, Frank N. Lufkin, Hugh Howell,
L. Von Tempsky, Washburn Baldwin, F. G. Krauss, James Lindsay,
Victor C. Schoenberg, R. A. Drummond, Thomas Dunn, W. F. Croc-
( Continued on Page Seven.)
Settlement To
Hear Politicians
Dr. Raymond Secures Permission From
Board Of Health For All Maui And
Delegate Candidates To Address
Inmates Of Kalaupapa
For the first time In eight years
the Maul .candidates have been grant
ed permission by the territorial board
of health to make political talks to the
inmates of the Molokai settlement.
The permission was secured by Dr.
Raymond, candidate for nomination
and election as senator from Maui,
from Governor Pinkham, Attorney
General Stainback and the board of
health, with Dr. Pratt, the president,
concurring.
Dr. Raymond first made his appeal
to the governor, and then to the at
torney general by whom he was grant
ed permission to appear before the
board of health. Attorney James Coke
with Dr. Raymond both addressed the
board, arguing that although the Molo
kai settlement residents had been
deprived of their liberty to a certain
extent, that they had been allowed
by Congress and the territory to retain
their civil rights In other respects and
had the right to vote. To deprive them
of the rights of hearing political ad
dresses was arbitrary ruling and one
never intended and prescribed by the
law it was argued. It was even stat
ed that the residents of the settle
ment would receive some entertain
ment as well as information from the
political addresses which they would
hear.
News that they were once again to
be the focus point of political atten
tion is said to have been received
with great joy in the settlement.
Candidates for nomination and elec
tions as delegates are to receive the
same favor granted the Maul candidates.
WIRELESS MARKET QUOTATIONS
SESSION 10: 30 A. M. September 22, 1916.
Sugar Trice at N. Y. 96 degrees 5 83
Ewa Plantation Company 35 00
nawauan commercial & Sugar Co 50i
McBryde Sugar Company
Oahu Sugar Company zi A
Olaa Sugar Company t j
Pioneer Mill Company !."'.!',!!!!!!"' 4j
Waialua Agricultural Company 3j.'0q
Honolulu Brewing & Malting Company 20 "
Mineral Products Company.... 1 02 !
Honolulu Consolidated Oil Company .1!
L'ngels Copper Company ' Jjj
Mountain King Mine
Hawaiian Sugar Company . t
Onomea Sugar Company r-nn
Hawaiian Pineapple Company "
Oahu Railway & Land Company , , ..
Mutual Telephone Company ,00(.
Hilo Railway (7 per cent Pfd )
Hilo Railway (Common)
MARKET COMMENTS
MARKET DULL BUT STEADY.
Three Man-Fight
In Senatorial Race
Ben Lyons has withdrawn as candi
date for Democratic nomination as
the second Maul senator. Formal
notice of his withdrawal has been
sent to the secretary of the territory
in Honolulu. While Lyons does not
so state, it is understood that his
withdrawal is believed to be consider
ed a good move toward assuring the
election of Dr. Raymond as senator
from Maui In opposition to George
Cooke and Harry Baldwin on the Re
publican ticket.
Other reasons given for the with
drawal from the race of Lyons is that
he has aspirations for election to a
oounty ofUce at the spring election
and that he did not wish to spare the
time and expense necessary for the
campaign.
Even the Republicans admit that
with the second Bourbon candidate
out of the senatorial race that Cooke
will have to make a hard fight to be
elected. Harry Baldwin's election is
general conceded by the leaders of
both parties.
Jap Killed By
Fall From Derrick
Fulling from a 60-foot derrick in the
Puunene mill. Umemfttsn Oil
ived injuries on Wednesday morning
irom wnicn ne died a few hours later.
Oda was onthe scaffolding guiding two
tons of galvanized pipe to a position
where it was to be placed when he
was dislodged from his position. He
fell striking on his head and suffered
a fractured skull. The accident hap
pened about 6 o'clock in the morning
and he lived until 2 o' clock in the
afternoon. A coroner's jury has been
Summoned and it wan thn intontlnn
to hold an Inquest this afternoon.
Fair Grounds To
Be Tented City
Canvas Covering To Form Circular
Streets With Central Square Out
side Exhibitors Already Interested
County Show Will Have Its
Own Police Force
Maul's County fair grounds thp
Wailuku base-ball diamond will be
n tented city when the First Maul
fount y Fair opens on November 30,
for every exhibit Is to be placed In
canvasses houses, according to the
plans of the executive committee. At
first it was thought it would be nec
essary to erect buildings ,for at least
the machinery and the school exhibit,
but it has s'nee been learned that it
is possible to get tents which will
provide Just as good and attractive
shelter as would wooden buildings.
The tents will be placed in the order
of two streets, circling the base-ball
grounds with something In the nature
of a "town square" In the center, or
on the diamond, as a gathering place
for the the crowd when they are not
viewing the exhibits or are listening to
the speeches or music. The ten-acre
lot will provide sufficient room bo the
tents will not have to be crowded
closo'.y together and still leave plenty
of room for the easy movement of the
spectators.
On the lower side of the' grounds
will be placed the livestock exhibit
and -that of the inanimate kind on the
upper side. When the stock is judged
(Continued On Page 8)
Lahaina Celebrates
With Great Hospitality
Lahaina entertained and entertained bountifully at her two-day
harvest celebration last Saturday and Sunday. Fully 500o visitors en
joyed the hospitality of the little village and her big hearted men and
women for the forty-eight hours the celebration lasted.
It is impossible to tell in detail of the many different events that
occured during that time. A partial report of the events and part
cipants takes columns to tell in the brevity of program form.
The program started with base ball and horse racing at Kaanapali
Saturday and wound up late Sunday night with dancing and free mov
ing pictures. Central Maui turned out in mass for the big ball on
Saturday night, the Lahaina-Wailuku highway being thronged with
merrymakers and merry-seekers on their way to the celebration. Many
of those who went over Saturday remained until weariness of enjoy
ment sent them homeward on Sunday.
A feature of the event was the opening of the new Lahaina store,
which was visited and inspected by hundreds. Another feature, an
extremely interesting one, was the participation of the members of the
Maui militia regiment in most of the athletic events. Not only did
the militiamen participate in the different events, but also provided
some unique and novel forms of entertainment which were typically of
a military nature. One of the most interesting, judging from after
comments, was the retiring sharpshooter's race. The horse racing was
another highly enjoyable part of the program.
On Sunday at noon a big lunch was provided for every one of the
several thousand visitors on the race track. The seemingly almost im
possible task of supplying sufficient food for all was accomplished with
out trouble as the Lahaina poeple had estimated correctly in advance
the number they would have to entertain. Over rive tons of pineapples
were consumed at this lunch and other tons of fruit and vegetables.
Manager Weinzheimer entertained his friends at the luncheon in a
pavilion and the other hundreds were provided with eating places in
the park.
, (Continued on Page Eight.)
Louisson Confident
Of Winning Race
Hawaii Opponent Of Prince Kuhio
Makes Short Campaign On Maui
Business Man But A Friend Of
Hawaiians He Declares
Abe L. Louisson, well known Hawaii
coffee planter, now in the public eye
because he is making an active camp
aign against Prince Kuhio for the Re
publican nomination as delegate to
Congress, paid a four-day visit to Maui
this week, during which he made seve
ral public addresses.
Lousslon declare, "I am going to
win," and impresses his hearer that
he Is confident he Is uttering
truth.
He is making his campaign on
stand that he is familiar with
the
the
the
needs of Hawaii and that he knows
how to get legislation through Con
gress. "I am a business man but what Is
more I am a friend of the Hawaiians,
he says. "They say I have no chance
but I am a fighter and have won hard
er fighter," he continue.
During his stay on Maui he made
short talks at the Market Place In
Wailuku, and at Wailuku, Pala, and
Kahului Orpheum. He was well
received at all ihe meetings. He left
for Lahaina today, where he will make
another talk before leaving for Hono
'ulu tonight.
Louisson is so well. known on the
Itig Island that he is devoting almost
all his energy to meeting the voters
on this Island and Oahu.
Fireman Had Seven
Tins0f Opium
Claudine Man Is Arrested Saturday
When He Brings Drug Ashore To
Sell "Dope" Worth $1000 Jap
anese Is Also Arrested On Same
Charge
The police made two opium hauls
during the past week which netted
Ihem, in one case, confiscated opium
worth about $1000. This was taken
from the clothing or l.ni You, a Chin
ese fireman on the Claudine, as he
was coming ashore at Kalnl'ui last
Saturday morning. A tip had been
given to the police that he would
bring opium ashore to sell or leave
with confederates on Maui. Special
Officer Waiwaiole made the arrest
and when ho searched Lai You he
round the seven tins. Opium is said
to be worth $138 a tin on this island.
Lai You would give the police no
information as to where he jcofdope."
His only reply to questioning was that
a white man whom he said he did not
know had given it to him in Honolulu
to dispose of. Lai You was allowed
his liberty after putting up $200 bail
moneys which he forfeited.
Another arrest for having opium in
possession was that of Tanakh, a Jap.
anese. Like In the other case, an in
former had notified the police when
he wou.d be found with opium. Tana
ka was arrested In a Chinese store
while he was trying to sell the drug.
The arrest was made by officer Sam
Lindsay.
Maui Men Testify
About Inter-Island
Penhallow And Rice Witnesses At
Second Hearing Of Utility Com
missionWritten Complaint Filed
By Wailuku Plantation.
Although H. n. Penhallow was again
called to Honolulu this week to appear
as a witness before Ihe public utility
commission regarding the proposed
increase In freight rates of the Inter
Island, and a second hearing was held,
no action has been taken by the com
missioners. The commission has pos
tponed final action until after the
civic convention in Hilo. Harold
Rice was another Maui witness before
the second hairing of the commission
which was held on last Tuesday.
Following is the complaint of the
Wailuku Sugar Company over the In
creased rates of the Inter-Island Com
pany.filed Tuesday with the public
ut Unies commission:
"Wailuku, Maui, Sept. 18, 1916.
"Public Utilities Commission, Hono
lulu. "Centlemen: On behalf of the Wai
luku Sugar Company I wish to protest
against the raise in Inter-Island Steam
Navigation Company's freight rates as
shown Ui their proposed Freight
Tariff No. 2, which apply to shipments
which may concern the Wailuku
Sugar Company, and to make tho fol
lowing representation to your com
mission. "First. In making a comparison be
tween their Tariffs No. 1 and No. 2
(Continued On Page 8)
Officials Worry Over
Reported Villa Victory
General Bell's Version Of Chihuahua Battle Dis
credited Troubles Of Greece
Are Still Unsettled
WASHINGTON7, September 22 Washington officials are worried
by rejMirls of Villa raid on Chihuahua. An official statement sent to
Washington, by General I'.ell is discredited by advisors of administra
tion. 1(K)0 men are said to have joined Villa. The Carranza leaders
still stick to their former announcement of victory at Chihuahua.
LONDON, September 22 Venczucllos, former Greek premier,
hints at open revolt if King Constantine will not heed people. Would not
give direct answer when asked if he would go to Salonika to help
provisional government.
AT1IKNS, September 22 New premier says that King Constant
ine is not in sympathy with the Teutonic allies, but is pro-Greek only.
HONOLULU, September 22 Orders for steel rails are to be sent
away at once by the Rapid Transit Company. Delivery is not expected
before another year has passed.
Henry IJrandt, Honolulu blind boy, will some day be famous
writer, say teachers in California school for deaf and blind. He is an
expert typewriter. Most of his work is done with a frail slate.
Mayor Lane has been asked by the stevedores to mediate in the
water front strike. He tells strikers that their reasons must be sub
mitted in writing. ' .
PARIS, September 22 Turko-Tcutonic forces operating
in I'obrujuda district suffer reverses after six days of fighting and are
shattered, which lea yes armies of Central Powers in Macedonia expos
ed to rear attack.
FORT WAYNE, September 22 Hughes says that -all promises
made by Democrats have been broken. He again Hays that party in a
speech made here. . . '. ' '
SAN FRANCISCO, September 22 Refiners boost price 'of, sugar
for all grades. Advance of ten cents a hundred pounds is announced.
LONDON, September 22 Greek steamer Assomatos is reported
sunk by Lloyd's Agency.
EL PASO, September 22 Twenty-six thousand troops marched
through streets of El Paso in parade. All were regulars in the United
States Army.
(Continued on
Maui Girl Is
College Lecturer
Miss. Mabel Wilcox, daughter of
Charles Wilcox, auditor for the county
of Maui, has been accorded the unusual
distinction by MKls Colledge, of San
Kranctao of appointment as a special
lecturer on subjects of Hawaii
This is Miss Wilcox's, second or third
year at Mills Colledge.
She Is a graduate of the Kamehame
ha Girls' school. After leaving that
institution sho attended Punahou,
where she won tethavr ,yu
where she won the traveling scholar
ship to Mills Colledge.
Her sister, Miss Kaiolani Wilcox,
recently completed a three years'
course in nursing at St. Luke's Hos
pitin', San Franciso, and at present is
taking a graduate course. When she
has finished there, it is understood,
she will return home to practise her
profession.
Jap Boy Kills
Self Near Lahaina
Kihachl Shinkawa, a sixteen-year-old
Japanese boy, committed suicide by
poison at Kaanapali, on Wednesday of
last week. The parents notified Dr.
Franklin Hurt and Dr. Ohata, but the
boy died before their arrival.
The following note, written in Eng
lish, was found on a table in his room:
"Dear Parents: Excuse me for I
am going to die killing myself because
I found that this life of mine which
Is hardly worth living. Pray don't
tell to anybody the fact that I am
gone. The cause of my suicide Is be
cause one of my plan is prevented by
my brother. I will give you informa
tion of detail from the better land.
"Yours trulv,
"KIHACIII"
MAUI NEWS ANNOUNCEMENT
lleginning with last Monday the Maui News inaugurated a new
service for the readers of the weekly publication and Dailv Wireless
when it started the niil.licatinn an1 knll,.i;, f ,i-:i : i
i ui j i Many wucicsa
market quotations from the Honolulu Stock Kxchange. Dunne the
...I. . - l- .i . . .
juioi wcuk me nidiKci reports ior uie aay quoted nave been posted at
the News office, the Wailuku bank and the Kahului bank. On the
following day the quotations were published in the Daily Wireless.
P.ut unless there is a decided protest from the subscribers of tin-Daily
Wireless, the quotations will be published in the daily issue on the date
received after nevt Si:itiir1nv 'IMiic will ....;-... !,.. ,i..i....: s .i...
- - ....... v..., . ,n in..-iimn uiu ll-,l in mi-
delivery of the Daily Wireless from one to two hours later than formerly,
as the market quotations are not received in Wailuku until almost noon
and the news dispatches for the Wireless are received early in the
morning. The Daily Wireless will be printed in time to catch the
first afternoon train to the mvmimlrv Histnirtc fint iimII Ln t-l.or.
to Lahaina during the afternoon by automobile. If readers of The
Daily Wireless object to the latter hour of publication and distribution
of the Wireless they should so notify the management of the Maui
News. Likewise, if the nadirs nrcfiT to receive tlie m.-irl-t . mi. .1 -,i I, .ne
on the date for which they are reported they should so inform the
management of this paper. The desire of the management is to follow
the wishes the majority of the patrons
ttm.. o.l.l ...,.,.!.: -i i . ... :
Him. auu unwilling jiossiuic iu us
Page Three.)
Ginza Shows Signs
. Of Deepest Regret
Slayer Of liana Bookkeeper Spends "
Time Reading lnail Long Hau
ls Clipped To Permit Examination
Of Skull For Insanity Marks
John Ginza, the confessed slayer of
George Cooper of Hana, is said by po
lice officials to be showing signs of
regret for the cowardly crime which
committed. He seems to realize now
the irrimensity and the serious penalty
which he will probably be callud upon
to pay for' his deed.
Although there are unusual Bigns of
regret, that is for an Oriental, shown
by Ginza, he spends his time very
qulte'y in the Wailuku jail, having
very little intercourse with the other
prisoners. At his request he has been
provided with an abundance of maga
zines which he reads throughout the
day. He has not been given news
papers containing accounts of his
crime.
Unlike criminals of other races, he
has not asked to see the newspaper
accounts containing information con
ceiving the Hana tragedy. The news
papers would have been refused him
by the police. Very little information
concerning the crime has been allowed
to creep into the other prisonres.
Ginza's long hair was clipped close
to his head during the past week. It
is rumoured that it is thought he or
the attorney appointed to defend him
may enter a plea of insanity as a de
fense for the crime. The hair was
cut to permit Dr. Osmer and Dr.
Sawyer to examine his skull for signs
of insanity, or lack or them, it is said.
of the Wireless, and at the same
. I.
news service.
