FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
itmramg
iMtMtt
& x
NIGHT
EXTRA
VbL. IH.-NO. 8
ALLIED ARMIES
WIN ALONG FIVE
fRONTS IN EAST
i
fackensen in Flight.
"itusso-Rumanians in
Pursuit
SAtlCZ FORTS ARE
.REPORTED FALLEN
Russians and Allies Score in
Transylvania and
Carpathians
erbs continue gains
itish Take Mile of Trenches
in Attack on
Somme
' Kussian and Humanlnn armies nro
in on tho offensive and havo scored
ietories in tlio Dobrudja, Transylvania,
! Carpathians and Gallcia. A report
l.Rome says that several of tho
of Hallcz, key to Lemberg, have
alfen beforo tho terrific onslaughts of
Czar's troops.
, The position of the Gcrman-Bulgar-
Vfwlcieh army in tho Dobrudja, under
Id Marshal August von Mackensen,
i mo3t serious. Mackensen's army is
dly in need of food and ammunition.
All tHe roads leading from Bulgaria
the Dobrudja are impassable be-
gwie of heavy rains, and Rumanian
rtillery has cut off tho. Danube com-
RwineaUon line of the Bulgarians. The
feVeated forces hc,vo been thrown back
lire miles and aro being 'hard-pressed
nj the Russians and Rumanians, who
ve now definitely assumed the of-
lve. Official announcement of the
iro-Rumanlan victory is made by
barest. It is believed that the rout
von Mackensen ends the German
t to Bucharest and that tho Rus-
and Rumanians will now be able
Jertnko an invasion, of Bulgaria
nd and sea.
nttnned nursuifc of the 'Bulgarians'
if-the Serbs in Macedonia and the
m of Bulgarian counler-attacks
frf announced by the French War
i-Tae capture of trenches along a front
pga mile long, between Flera and Mar-
poich, by. the British is reported by
London War Offico in an official
Mitement on tho operations on the
ne. Jfaris reports tne lauure ox
i German counter-attacks.
H
f
qM3P
pSO-RDMANIANS SCORE
EjON FOUR FRONTS; FORTS OF
HALICZ REPORTED FALLEN
fl ""'"""I
tAftir having- fallen back before the fierce
tuehts of the Teutonic. Allies the Rus-
i and Rumanian forces have again taken
j;ettenslve and are advancing on all the
' In Transylvania, Dobrudja, Car-
ins and Qallcla.
, wireless report from Rome received
today states that the Czar's forces,
by Its Ally, are sweeping;,, back the
us and have gained victories all along
Lw
feral forts at Halicz, where there has
Ijbltter fighting, have already' fallen,
f4h report.
ld Marshal Mackensen's Teutonlo
ft, battling with the Russo-Rumanlan
1, in the Dobrudja, s In desperate
, according to dispatches received
: today.
Seating before the fierce attacks of
hlet, Mackensen's men are said to be
at food and munitions. Hard rains
made the roads almost Impassable.
greatest difficulty. Is being ixperl-
oy ins Teutonlo allies In moving
' arms.
convoys, sent down the Danube
Rustchuk to relievo Mackensen's
.were sunk by Rumanian artillery,
battle of the Dobrudja has bean
by the Russo-Rumanlang after Ave
f furious fighting.
Teuton-Bulgarian army made a
te effort to break through the,- Ru.
lln guarding1 the Danube cross-
This was hurled back, nnd the Allied
, tUrnlna to tha nfTfnulv hrii lh
"-J6 In their flight the Invaders
Tung Rumanian villages. ,
treat's Official tatm&nt rt !. l
joiiow.; " "" "-
ki' bttlje In the Pobrpdja. which
me 10 in, enaea Wednesday
CHad en f ase Toor. Column One
THE WEATHER
OFFJQIAL FORECAST
'Phitiiflfflta and vieinitvGen.
' tUildv lat ttnJnkt. J ..
"Uti fwibly "eeme light rain:
t cooler Saturdatu amtl.
fiy wind.
!".
T.KKOTH Of DAY
.M., B:4Ta.m,Mea rlu'.,, lMa.sa.
AWARK KIVMR TIK OHAVOm
CHICUI'tllt'l flTllMIMT
f"J"l'tttl! A HACK HttVS
:u,.
PITLLADBIiPniA, FItlDAY, SEPTEMBER 1213, 191G
Coftntonr, 1910, it Tnsfimio Limes Courixt
PENN ALUMNI PURCHA&T NEW HOME FOR PROVOST SMITH
57 Wft Ci. JLi IkJU " y Wt' 'tlM iMlfe' )mt& 'jMuji kjUf tiiji ufv (vtjftsjialMXiAV iVtLi" .." ":.' T!"".1
h lHV lr l a iBJBaw .V HE Jl . .. .-Jgf Ju rvJPpb.,akva'a9KkppsjgfKXlgflg JIB L.iiK-IIH.K-IIK. .IHb IkC IMft- VsH iv srvig4ajra,vajMwHasjaHaHUidfta
bf HHHPn, wLwflHHHHijjRS' iBle' iiiiiHiiiiilQriBjt' &c 9.wi
WIB m IHLLLLLLLLLLB nil ! fflfc r WiBL 11 JLLLHv HiHlLLLH b H iaHi
Aftnr fflnnV VWirt' flnlnv 4l.n nvn.,A4- nr l. TTt... tl.. . Tl 1 n t . a... . ...
ti, ...... i r i Vi f'Ji i IV j u"iik ui jTcjinayivanm win navo a nomc ocnuing nis position.
Tho above palatial Coloriial residence, following extensive altcrtlons, will bo presented to Provost Smith nnd
Mrs. Smith as their future homo by members of tho Alumni of the University and by tho Mask and Wig Club.
The building is located at 4019 Pine street and is of tho truo Colonial style. It has wire, spreading lawns.
S1'.11 wc1 shaded by old nnd stately trees planted many years ago. The Mask and Wig Club has donated
c :H?ii a ?u1ndnUo,J uPn whch to start remodeling the provost's new home, and member of the Alumni
of Old Penn have elected a committee whose object it will be to raise the sum of 8100,000, with which
every modern addition to provide for the perfect comfort of Provost Smith and his family will bo pur
chased. Ten thousand dollars will be spent immediately for furnishings and equipment for the new home
and nnd endowment of $50,000 will bo allotted to meet the fixed charges.
HJUribi
800,000 WORKERS
READY TO STRIKE
AT LEADERS' BECK
Labor Chiefs in New York
Conference to Decide
Mammoth Blow
FOR AID OF qARMEN
NEW TOntf, Sept. St. One hundred
men this afternoon are sitting- in jl confer
ence but of which may or may not come
solution of o'no of the gravest labor situa
tions In the nation's history.
The men are representatives of. all the
labor unions in the city. They are debating
whether to call 'a sympathetic strike, In
volving 800,000 union workers. In order to
aid the striking carmen to win their de
mands. Early Indications were that the sym
pathetic, strike would be called. The warn-
Ing'of Mayor Mitcnei ana inairman airaua,
of the Public Service Commission, that the
State' Guard would be called out has not
deterred the union leaders In the least. It
was stated authoritatively, however, that
the conference this afternoon Is considering,
besides the sympathetic strike, these two
alternatives: '
First. The calling out of th.s unions
directly connected with the transporta
tion companies whose work la heces- ,
sary to keep surface cars and elevated
and subway trains running..
Second. The enforcing of an edict -prohibiting
union members riding, upon
any lines atTected by' the Btrlke. Em
ployers would be notified that unless
they themselves provided means of
transportation their unlgn employes
would find It Impossible to get to work.
This plan. It was declared, would tie
up the entire community as effectively
as a sympathetic strike,
HAS LABOR SUITORT
Hugh Frayne, of the State Federation of
Labor, reiterated today that, Jf a general
strike wero called the American Federation
k Centlaned on rie Two, Column One
STOCK PRICES JUMP;
MANY NEW HIGH MARKS
Thirteenth Consecutive Million
Share Day in Wall Street.
Steel Common Leads
NEW YORK. "Sept 28. The stock mar
ket was again strong and active today,
the million-share mark being passed before
I o'clock. This Is the thirteenth consecu
tive million-share day. A flood of buying
orders came Into tho market with the open
Ing of th exchange, aiding the bulls In
their battle for higher prices.
Many new hlfli records were rltered
before the day was very old and. by after
noon the high marks of the morning were
passed and .prices were still moving up
ward. One of the most" prominent Issues
was United States Steel common, which
rose to ill, to " highest "poM It has
VTheta In Steel -wa's aoeompayrted by re
pert tn the street'thatanother extra dlvl
dead of at least 1 P would be de
stared at the Bt meeting of the big corpor.
atlea'a directors., There wm official con.
fmUMi of this, b tne way me mart
.Med it was not Bmwary to have oonarHw
?tont all ithktw aWjd vva. a ruwor ttot
imMhwf was sbovt to be do4 and e
Sockthit was subJot to the rumor rose,
oth7VhVfciiu which reeUwwi
Sir iSSm wer UT.W bought m?
J"rZ 4ww .' tn"
4i?-tna9J J- Jiw.
TEMPLAR CONCLAVE
COMMITTEE CONSULTS
WITH HOTEL KEEPERS
Choice of Philadelphia as Meet
ing Place in 1919 Dependent
on Satisfactory Accommo
dations and Terms
GRAND MASTER THE ARBIT
Moat Eminent Sir Lee Smith. '.of, Pilt;
burgh, Grand Master'ot the GrandEneamp
ment of, tho Knlg)its,TcmplarrbfOT. colnc
into the triennial conclave' committee, la
session at the Bellevue-Stratfdrd this morn
ing, said that while Philadelphia, had been
tentatively selected as the scene of the 1919
conclave It did not mean that the conclave
would be held here. The decision, he said,
was up to the conclave committee and
Anally to the decision of the Grand Master
of the Grand Encampment.
The committee, he said, was meeting to
day with the committees appointed by the
hotels of Philadelphia which will submit
a list of available accommodations and the
terms, and If these are ample and satis
factory Philadelphia will bo selected.
'The conclave," said Mr. Smith, "would
bring more than J1.000,Q0O. to Philadelphia
during the conclave week. The knights are
all good spenders, are used to the best of
everything and can pay for it."
100,000 KN'IOIITS TO ATTEND
As to the number which will attend the
conclave Mr. Smith had, no hesitation in
saying that it w6ulil be over one hundred
thousand, Including members and visitors.
'TJiere are," he said, "25,000 members In
the State of Pennsylvania and 25.000 In the
State of New York; In fact. In this little
eastern corner. Including the New England
'states, there are more than one hundred
thousand knights alone."
' Asked if he expected any visitors from
abroad, 'Mr. Smith said a great deal would
depend on the conditions of the war In Eu-
"Outside Great Britain," he continued,
"there are few members of the order in
any of the European countries.' And .the
number In Great Britain Is limited,. with
a-long 'waiting Hat. Membership In the
Knights Templar in Oreat Britain Is con
fined t largely to; the nobility, Conditions
over 'twere .are not as they are' here," said
Mr. Smith, "where we look upon a mechanlo
as bolngas noble as the best of us.
"Besides, the British Knights Templar
is not a uniformed order, and the same In
ducements are nqt held out as In the
United States."
Mr) Smith said he expected a large rep.
resentatlon from Canada, , where the order
Is as nourishing as In the United' States.
At .the' conclave held In Loa Angeles last
year Mr, Smith said there was only one
representative present from Great Brltatri,
and he came from Ireland.
Mr. Smith said the principal reason, why
the flrul decision as to the place where the
'triennial conclave would be 'held was In
vented In the triennial conclave committee,,
subject to the approval of the Grand Master
of the Grand Encampment, was that they
would be at the mercy of hotel managers
and proprietors -who oould say, "they are
pernlng .here anyway," and could then-make
.whatever pHm th wished. I) Is. the
ua!MM of th committee to guard against
that.
Mr, Lee also said that, evea should the
cwnniltttf 4eUe on ,a certain piaoe tor the
0aeatov, ba, a Oreat Waster of the Orpnd.
ceukt overrule H, If be w
lac M so.
U u la favor of Ptjllndetghia,
fee uMi 'fSarUuuyj FenAsylvaaU ta.aay
ow Ut 4 I have many cM M4a to
M aaaay Japjy Magelatloaa wMfc MUte-
MaldafcV
MUNITION PLANT
HERE BOUGHT BY
ALLIES' COMBINE
.
Anglo-Russian Commission
Acquires Factory at
Eddystone
DETAILSpF TvRA,NSFER
The stock of the Eddystone Ammunition
Corporation TiasHecn ncqiilrgnygtiJeAn-'
glo-nussia Commission, and" In the future
nil munttons made at the plant. will be
manufactured under tho supervision of rep
resentatives from the Allied Governments.
This was announced today In a statement
Issued by Alba B. Johnson, president of the
Baldwin Locomotive Works.
Mr, Johnson's statement follows;
The announcement made yesterday
that the Baldwin Locomotive Works is
to take over the management of the
Eddystone Ammunition Corporation's
contracts with the British Government
does not accurately express the situa
tion. Tho stock of the ammunition cor
poration has been acquired by the An-glo-Russlan
Commission, which will
designate the board of directors. The
corporation Itself, continues Its cor
porate existence and Its lesseeshlp of
the buildings which have been con
structed for Its use and Is to continue
to perform Its contracts.
The selection of the Baldwin Loco
motive Works In tho matter of under
taking to carry on the business Is In
no wise altered. It has undertaken to
render some service for tho benefit of
the ammunition company, for which It
will be compensated In addition to a
rental. The Baldwin Locomotive Works
assumes no' financial responsibility
whatsoever.
HUGE PLANT
The Eddystono Ammunition Company was
organized about fifteen months ajm, for
the purpose of manufacturing shells for
the Russian Government. Large buildings
were erected and employment given to more
QUICK NEWS
PITTSBURGH..
PHILLIES.
0 0
2
Evaus and rischcrj Mayer and Klllcfcr. . Easou arid Rlglcr.
ST. LOUIS O
BROOKLYN
V"
O
1
.Meadows and Qonsalcs; Marnuard and Meyers.
MACKENSEN CRUSHES FOES;
TURNS DEFEAT INTO VICTORY,
BERLIN, Sept. 22. Field Marshal von Mackenson's forces liave
rallied in Dobrudja and have administered n crushing defeat to tho
Russian-Rumania nrmy opposing them, according to this afternoon's
official statement. The Russians and Rumanians are declared to havo
retreated in disorder before the Teutonic allies. Von Mackensen
turned defeat into victory means of an encircling attack.
BIG JUMP IN READING COMPANY AND RAILWAY EARNINGS
Big Increases in tho earnings of the Reading Railway and the
Reading Company arc shown by tho reports for the year ended June
00, which were mado public at the meeting of the directors this
nftrnoon. Tho railway,s gross was S57,208,302, as compared with
$10,71-1,821 tho previous year. Tho net Increase from S1D,580,43'1
to !f23,00S,731. Gross earnings 8f the Reading Company were
91S,427,G03, as against 514,537,000. Tho net was $0,077,311, as
compared with $0,060,050 the' year before.
NINTH BANK FAILURE IN CHICAGO
CHICAGO, Sept. 22. Creditors of tho Industrial Savings Bank, an old-time
private Institution, caused to bo filed In Federal Court today an involuntary petition
ror the appointment of a receiver. Tho Institution's liabilities aro said to total about
ji.ooo.ooo, with ossets'approxlmately SBOO.OOO. The failure of tho bank Is the "ninth
catastrophe that has hit depositors In prlvato-lnsUtutlons here In tho last four weeks.
GERMANY BUILDING SUPER-ZEPPELINS FOR GREAT RAID
llOML,, Sept. 22. Zurich dispatches today levlved tho reporla that the Germans
aro building super-Zeppollns at Vrlcdriclishafen for a great raid on England. At
a meeting; pf German societies In Kiel, according to reports from Swiss sources, a
resolution was adopted advocating tho "careful crushing of Great Britain, our worst
encmy.-and declaring, that any talk of pcaco before that tlmo-1saccmpIlshcdv1s';
luujisn.
ENGLISH RAILWAY PAYS FIRST DIVIDEND SINCE WAR
LONDON, Sept, 22. Tho directors of tho Grand trunk Railway Company today
ueciarou a uiviaond or two and one-half per cent for the half year on tho first pre
ferred five per cent stock. This Is tho first distribution since the war. The last
payment was two and one-half per cent and was mado In the spring of 1914.
GENERAL DUPORT MADE HEAD OF FRENCH STAFF
PARIS, Sept. 22. General Pierre Gcorces Dunort has been nnnolnted chief of
tho headquarters staff of tho army at the Ministry of War, in place of General Jean
-esar arazlani, who has retired on account of 111 health. General Duport was a
colonel at tho outbreak of the war and rapidly won his way to the command of an
army corps.
Continued n 1'ase T, Column Two
BRITAIN TRIES PLAN
TO AVERT MAIL CLASH
Agent Coming to XJ,. S. to Re
assure Bbna:Fide Business
Interests
WASHINGTON. Sept. 22. Great Britain
Is determlned-to .prevent the mall seizures
situation from reaching anything even ap
proaching a diplomatic crisis.
This was the general belief today when
Sir Richard Crawford, commercial adviser
of the British 'Embassy, announced he
would go to New York early next week to
confer with leading bankers and financiers
regarding England's censorship and its
effect on American business,
Sir Illchard, acting under his Govern,
ment's Instructions, plans to bend every
effort to come tq an. understanding with
leading bankers and financiers of this coun
try who represent American manufacturers
and shippers regarding their overseas
trade,
Briefly this l the latest plan of the Brit
tsh Government to meet the protests from
AnwicaifVrRaiuifacturerit that Kngfand, by
opefilng oemmerotal nulla. U diverting bus.
Ineaa toJBngllsh eatabUahments.
KotrUitd wlaM ta ffot to American
llrsM that ,hjM w ht and wants no
tab with ba Ms ,Aarkan nnuactur.
r.a aj Mpu'rUs, u Jstrlctly obaervfug
neutrality, wt mL M MJty'a (to-
mwwaaa tf fwYM nria l-
tewMrw ajuwlas at toe BtM
..
CANADIAN LOSSES TOTAL 1700 IN "TANK" FIGHT
OTTAWA, Ont., Sept. 22. In tho "tank" fight of Monday and Tuesday on the
Somme front Canadian losses wero 400 killed, 1000 wounded and 300 missing. This
brings the total Canadian casualties to about 40,000.
VERDICT OF $3G5 FOR CALLING MAN A GERMAN
LONDON, Sept. 22. It has been doclded In ono western Australian court that
it is defamatory to call a man a German, and an appeal has been taken against a
verdict of 75 ($365) damages,
PRICE OKE OENJT
FIVE-CENT BREAD
WILL STAY AS IT
IS, SAY BAKERS
Must "Educate Public" Be
fore More Than a Nickel
May Be Charged
WILL. TAKE LONG TIME
Less Than One-Tenth of Ono Per
Cent Havo Boosted
Prico
i
"UNITED STATES PURCHASES 30 FLYING BOATS
NEWPORT NEWS, Va.t Sept. 22 Tho United States Government has ordered
thirty of the N- type, flying boats for the Naval Aviation School at Pensacola.Fla. In
a test the N-3 developed a maximum speed of slxty.nlno miles an hour.
THIRD TRIP MAY BRING HUGHES TO THIS STATE
NEW YORK, Sept. 22. A third campaign trip that will take him through
States he has pot yet' visited Is "betng arranged by Chairman Wilcox for 'Charles B,
Hughes, According to present plans, this tour will be through Maryland, West
Virginia, New Jersey and possibly Pennsylvania, Ho will start about October 7.
GREEK STEAMSHIP SENT TO THE BOTTOM
LONDON, Sept, 22. The Greek steamship .Asslmaoos, 2898 tons, was sunk on
September 11, according to a Lloyd's report. The crew was landed.
NAVY TO ASK BIDS SOON FOR HUGE DIRIGIBLE
WASHINGTON, Sept. 22. The Navy Department soon wJU send out specifica
tions calling for sealed bids for the construction pf a huge dirigible. "Tha balloon
will be of tho general SJeppelln type, probably D00 feet or more in length and of
great power. t
BOELKE WINGS TWO MORE PLANES; 28 HIS TOTAL
BERLIN, Sept. 22. Captain Boelke, Germany's most famous aviator, on
Wednesday brought down two Entente aeroplanes. This feat brings his record to
twenty-eight machines disposed of during tho war.
URGES SECRET NUMBERS TO BALK AUTO THEFTS
Secret' numbers to Identify automobiles asji mean to check the Increasing Slum
ber of. auto thefts Is advocated by James Tate, Jr., captain of dclectlvea. The
police ofilclal advanced this plan a a substitute, for tho Impracticable Idea
advance by ah Insurance man favoring the uso pf ' a small bras plate riveted c-n
the body of tha car.
GERMANS IMPOSE NEW TAX ON BELGIAN NOTES
AMSTERDAM, Sept. 22. The Germans have Introduced In Belgium new taxa.
tlon on bank notes, according to frontier correspondents. All bank netea muat bo
stamped with a special seal by the German authorities In returp for a mall t w
on each note. Notes not provided with the stamp are subject to conftocaUan.
GERMANS DELUGED BY 12,000,000 BRITISH SHELLS
LONDON. Spt. U. "During the bombardment that prM44 the British
advance on the Somme last Friday our guns wH have thrown at Uas 12,w,o
etwlU on the enemy's lines and positions,'! says Maloohw Koi( war irrtsp'ondsnt
with the Kew Zealand forces, 1n a dlapatcb.
M3MBBR8 OF TIUTON PRLUMJ&NTS TO COtf FR
BKKLIN, et. at, A tin of Qermu 4 Auo-Umma miwUix. r
parliament wUt b, held .at M. 1M wMm aautlfiH V, ,, a.
MM Mnn ywmr
.There will be no rise tn the .price of the
flvo-cent loaf of bread In the pear future, fn
the opinion pf large and small bakers and
of officials of bikers' associations.
They say the few bakers who now charge
six cents a, loaf are dealers In an exclusive
trade, which does not represent ona-tenth
of ono per cent of the total bread business
of tho city.
P. L. Schllehenmayer, of the Philadel
phia Master Bakers' Association, says ha
does not know of any bakers who contem
plate a change from the five-cent price.
B, F. Whltecar, of tho National Bakers'
Association, which Includes virtually all of
the large producers, says that a national
movement must "edueato the public" before
a-new price can be set
The ten-cent, loaf, giving "honest value."
would be tho IdcAl form, tho bakers say, but
they add that the opposition of the average
housewife Is a big problem. They also say
competition of the chain stores Is a seri
ous obstruction to the ten-cent loaf.
NO NEED TO "WORnT
"The fact that several bnkers are re
ported to have raised prices need not frighten
the city," said one baker this morning.
"Two or .three ordinary bakers do not pro
duce one-tenth of one per cent of the bread
eaten In Philadelphia, and It some bakers
who'cater to a select trade do raise prices
the average consumer will not be affected."
Mr. Schllehenmayer said that the average
small . baker who sells to- the American '
consumer cannot raise the price independ
ently of the larger producers, The big
bakers and the chain stores, he thinks make
almost 7S per cent pf the bread consumed
In the city, that Is, excluslra of the' Jewish.
Italian and other special lines of baking;
JJrl Whltecar said; '
; SA1?S BAltERS LOSE MONET
, There has beeV an Kor for sontUii
to bring the ten-cent, teat into common use
"all over this country, but i la a matter
qf education tliat roust bo ' gradually
brought to the attention of the public It
i-a ".arLmatter ? accomplish, because
'eve1fyhusewi?e"lsVnp7ont1
cat a change In her every-day economics.
The women would rise In protest all over
the United States It the price were put up
without a preliminary educational cam
paign, Five-cent bread Is too well estab
lished." Mr. Whltecar said' all the bakers would
be glad to make a ten-cent loaf, putting
;hto It a "Just weight of material." At
present virtually all bakers are Idalng
money, he said, and he gave figures show
ing that the average baker throughout the
United States who produces 10,000 loaves
a day Is sustaining a loss of 9000 a year.
HECOMMENDS WHEAT EMBARGO
An embargo on the shipment of wheat
to England and other belligerent countries
Is the chief remedy that William Frelhofer,
president of one of the large baking com
panies of Philadelphia, advocates for the
pretention of the high price of bread, While
he declares .that to the beat of his know),
edge no Increase In the price of bread Is
contemplated by the largest baking com
panics, lie admits" that the size of loaves
.has been reduced In many cases about 1H
ounces In .the last six months. Tho brea.d
his firm sells averages thirteen ounces per
loaf, he said this morning,
"It Is a deplorable condition," said Mr.
Frelhofer; "that many small bakers must
go out of business and that .100,000,000
Americans must be taxed Just to accom
modate waning countries In Europe, when
a simple embargo by our Government
would keep our wheat at home.
Mahlon'H. Mancll & Co., of Flfty-ueeond
and Market streets, has advanced the price
on flve-cent loaves to six cents, and Joha
L, lleerman, proprietor of four West Phila
delphia stores, announced that beginning
Monday his loaves will be five cents straight
instead of six for a quarter.
SALUS ASSAILS VICE SQUAD
Accuses Itattlembers of Manufacturing
Evidence Against Women
Members, o( the vice squad were ac
cused of manufacturing evidence against
women prisoners and otherwise generally
and roundlyscored by State Senator palua.
counsel for 'Lillian Herman, of .324 'govta
Twelfth street, at a hearing In Central fta
tlon today,
, Senator ,SMuf, In' his tUtw U Magis
trate Pennock In behalf of ttU prior,
asserted that members of the Mpiad maU
factured evidence and sought -lei bfekn
the souls at the 'wemm tbay atreaUd. His" "
attack tyought a xeAfad if applause from
four soevtatera 'at H hearing, who wm
immediately orir4 leataa eewtrvMn by .
the Magistrate.,
Mlmn wfHi '
l'oneemen uaay,
efcarx-aJiWlOi
trate PMuwck ta4
ewti.
ajfMtjirJftat afeft'kr
MfW JPewpwi jWMvaaeM
m . rriHvi Mmim
fl)mis JaaiasT Maaia-
. ajhiair. lt aa4
War TwaitkC ' Hair Orr
LONIKH, Beast. II. TtM Kmt of tha
war la prematurely afiag U agbtliig nasi
la alt .atiuies ha twawM tha uaot of
sm-1us sottntnt. tlaouaata in JCntUas.
InveaugftUoaa have shown, that mm Mater
tblrti la a few month iu the trMMisaa,
turn rr. This ealwa it notkseaM, Ml
Waly tn the SHUati mrn-y but uaau tha
iah atee, a4 amooa unswui prtasaam
mmmr wfejsa, sjMng chetr ua M twaMftu
mm v eaHM Mam. presaat Ut
