THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudy to-ddy and to-morrow; not
much change in temperature.
Highest temperature yesterday, 6g; loweit, 55.
Detailed weather, mail and marine report on page 11,
IT SHINES FOPJ ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 22.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1916. CepyrlflAfm. by Ihe Sun Prtnttng and PnbUtMng A$ociaUon.
ONE
rCMTr In Oreater New York. 1 Elsewhere
vuil jl Jerser f 'llr and Newark. I
TWO CKNTfl.
RUMANIANS ROUT
IN GREAT DOBRUDJA BATTLE;
MAGKENSEN'S ARMY IN FLIGHT
Teutons Burning Villages
in Retreat, Bucharest
Announces.
I!1S1AXS STRIKK
TUB DECISIVE BLOW
JiVciifoivements Arrive in
Time to Make Counter
Attack n Victory.
AVSTIMAXS HELD
AT VULCAN PASS
One-fourth of Transylvania
Xow in Hands of
Invaders.
Lo Uis, Sept, 21. The Rueso-Ru-
mania.. trnopa have) won the big
Dobrudja battle. .Von Mackcnsen's
army of Germans, llutgjvrti and Turka
u rctrr-j t lntr southward, burning Ru
manian village In Ita flight, the Ru
manlun War Oftlcc announces.
For six il-iya the battle rased. H tic-
tan last Friday and was not decided
r.lll yesterdiy, when the utrons Rus
sian reonforccmcnta which were
,brcughl up turned the tide. An earlier
J'.nmanlnn statement hud announced i
that the allied troopa were counter at- j
ncklns the Teutons, and German j
statementa latclv have spoken of
iliiiiuatlng" fighting.
j n i
T'e heavy righting went on all nloni
line of forty-tlve miles about ten miles (
'.i!tli nf fnntiinr-i. nn III. tll.plr Ha I
Black Sea !
i.-t lo fernaoda, on the Danube. The .
KummUii-. retreating before Von
Vac'onscn'e sudden Invasion of tho
'obnidja from Bulgaria, were forced
o $l up Tutrnkan and h'lllstrla. but
uerr Joined by tho Russians In time to
ftind nt this strong line. Then came
more Russians, who were distributed
'ors the Cnnetantn-Cernavoda Railroad
s'e-is the hat tin fiont, and the Teutons
cC thrown hark.
If the Rutso-Rumnnlans press their i
Mvant.iEo and throw tho Teutons out U
Jtrflii from Ttitrakan and Hlllstrla and
"Ui of Hie whole Dobrudja, they will bo
sWe lo mmnienrc the crushing of Bul
tatia l.etncen their army on the north
i! t;:! fonc nf Gen. Surrnll In Mace
'.a nn the muHIi. Von Mackenscn'a
- iclnn ii' ihc Dobrudja was ulined to
rete-il li
To-nlxh ' official statement, which
- of he Viory In tho Dobrudja. also
"'. nf Hie r.ipture of Ordernel. better
mi as rSxikely L'dv.irhely. Tills Im
.iiiii town nf eastern Transylvania Is
fV. miles fr?in the western Rumanian
' t'Mtier. on the Nagy Kiiliullo. and Is an
il'onsnt railhead. One-fourth of Trail
,.';inlii Is now In Rumanian hands.
T'.e statement follows:
tin the north and northwest fronts
nUttlnc continued on .Mounts Callntan
(Isdeinen) and GhurElll, where we
tiMk 13? prisoners nr.d also machine
t 'i.e. A detachment ci.tered Orderhel. '
) tii" alley of tho J In we repulsed an
ismy uttark.
Southern front An artillery duel oc-ei-.-cd
hetseeii tho batteries at Zlo
ri a and ."Islor.
Johi iiilja The battle which began
i 'lie itii ended Wednesday nmn
Ii the defe.it nf the enemy, com
f'i 'd of Germnn, llulKarlun and Turk
I ii trnnpr nho retired southward,
burtiliiK villages In their retreat.
Austrian tioiis that recaptured Pctro
tny vHiTdny have occupied heights on
ti.tli ..Ides of tho Vulcan Pans, which
' i.ls m Rumania through the Tranuyl
.n i.ti Alps.
The AiHirlar.s. It Is txtiei'ted. will meet
ii.b'ini resistance1 heroic they peno
t aie t!,e Vulcan Poas. According to an
"IIi.-IhI staleinont fnmi Bucharest to
ay the Itiiinunlans who lost Petroreny
ire no longer In retreat, hut are fortl
fling themselves to stop the advancing
I'jo. The statement says thoy are "aouth
f rctroeny," but does not ay how far
'uth. I'etioseuy Is only ten milt north
cf the Rumanian border.
A belated Bulgarian statement of yet.
I'rtay telegraphed here says:
"On tho Danube our artillery succes.
fjhy bombarded the Tuniseverln Hta.
Lull
"The buttle on tho line of Maralul,
:.-:nlk. ArabadoJI, Kokardja. Cobadlri
n l Ttizlii e.inilnued yesterday with tho
l"c ite.n rtublornness on both sides. The
' le-riy maintained himself In his strong
1, fortified position."
nVLGARS BEATEN BACK.
Whlans with Bajonrls Drive foe
Pro,,, Foothold In Boretnlea.
.
1'inis. Sept. SI. Efforts made to-day
W the DiilBin- rlglitsjwlng to regain the neighborhood of Flcrs failed. A hostile
lfinlvo In western Macedonia were In, . . iMlloon wnf( brouifht down In flames
r ii, the French War Ollleo reumt.'. The (o-I:v. One of our ueropUnes Is mlts
utM bayonet charges beat back llulgari ng,
"Jps who had a foothold In Boreanlca, j
('n the Ficnch left winir they ndvunced to
Hill U.-iO. three miles northwest . of
I'ltoderl.
The IJulRiirs In a ptatement of yester
;sy :tlll deny that Kalmakcalan height,
'hi the Serbian border, cast of the Cerna,
I 1jeen stormed by tho Herbs and nay
"ill 100 Frenchmen
Dispatches fiom Athenu say the Greek
"llllHty olllclula regard the raptuio of
1 KHlmukcalan Tilateau ns the most
I'lU'ortHiit military event In the Balkan
campaign up to the prevent. Tho height,
"bloh U 7,sop feet above sea level. Ilea
J.i f-'erblau territory mid constitutes the
'lesteru doorpost tn Serbian Macedonia,
ii SrlM In ilteei-e ,ue Jubilant oer the
' nniite of K.ilmiikciilaii. which they con
i' )'T rlvtils llio mountain feats of th
Italians
Tlie French nfllclal slntcment fnllnws:
"From the River Struma to the River
, ' iiKiiiing arouna norma '' i collection of the late Dutch artist,
' ir favor. Bulgarian cauilry and in- n,nrk Wlllem MeBilag. who died In July,
'"'try roiinter attnrked and lepulsed the jj,r(j Ht (n, Hg(, 0f ,4. has been sold to
'Hied troons. rant III imt twelve RuvaluilH' i,imn fne n Inns sum. uponrdlnir
Continued oa Second Pat-
GERMANS
GERMAN LINE WORN
THIN BY ATTACKS
Fierce British Assaults Pre
vent Sending of Aid to
Knslcrn Front.
fa. Sep, 21.-Kvld.nee that Jh. I
wv fmu iiiiri. mi rrsnr are noro so inui
that il will be Impossible for the Kaiser
to Bhlft any troopa from the western
theatre to the eat Is contained In to
night's Fnch official statement.
OermanNroops already on the way
from Prance to Russia had to be re
calif (I to wlthstnnd the big allied ad
vance on the Homme last week and wera
thrown Into the ilolcnt and fruitless
Oermnn nttncku there yesterday. Troops
from the Aline front In Krance also were
urd.
The olllclat statement follows:
According to late accounts the great
Herman counter attach yesterday on
the northern bank of the Homme was
delivered by the P.lghteenth Corps,
which was withdrawn from the Alsne
front, and by the 211th Division.
This division was already entrained
for the Russian front when It received
orders half way on Its journey to re
turn to the Homme. It reached there
on the 11th, was put Into the line on
the night of the ltth and was engaged
-on the morning of the 20th In the
Bouchavesnea dtetrtct, where It suf
fered enormous losses. Over 200 pris
oners were taken north of the Bomme
yesterday.
Illnrtenhara; Called In.
So great was the German peril that
Kleld Marshal von Itlndenburg, recently
appointed chief of the General Staff, wai
called hurriedly from the eastern front,
where he had been In' conference with
,h Ka,'r- Kln Ferdinand of Bulgaria.
Knver Pasha and other Teutonic chiefs.
He directed personally lb, big German
... ... . ,. I , , I
attacks In the region of Bouchavesnea
yesterday. In which lO.OOO men took part, I
.. ....... . . I
ii . , 1.1
- "" - .
"Pondent In the field. Extra artillery
also had been brought up for th attack.
The result of the battle were disas
trous for th attacking forces, declare
the correspondent, division after division
twine, decimated by the French Infantry
and machine gun tire. The fighting was
extraordinarily fierce In tile centre nf the
region attacked, around Douchavesnca
and Hols r.m.e. and nt Combles, about I
- e 1'rlex Farm, aa
well as at Kaneouit.
i l(llliiiuil.
russlan b.it-1
.'"
At l-o Prlex Farm two I
correspondent, and a similar' fate was I
...er.r.,1 at nn...,,,ri t... n,ra .:....
regiments which, advancing In four P'ac and order there will not be worth
waves, made the last desperate effort of th, Vv " written on. It Is nd
the day. mltted. bo far as eatahllshlng peace
The extent nf the German Uses. says' northern Mexico Is concerned It would
the despatch, may be estimated by the ?'.mort to U-y point Jo negotiate with
fact that a company of the Eleventh 1".a .,n,n wlt" i-arranta, It Is c
Bavatlan division lost lfiO men out ofln,,,"!"
10, while regiments elsewhere lost 6n 1
per cent, of their effectives.
Counter Attacks Iteaten.
Heavy German counter attacks were
beaten back last night by the British
north of the Somnie, us similar assaults
wero by the French south of the river.
The German assaults continued all night,
but not only did they make no Impres
sion upon the New Zealand troops, who
withstood them, but the New Zealanders
actually advanced their position a little
and took prisoners. German dead lay
thick before their trenches. The heavy
rain continued all through this fighting.
About Verdun the French were sue-
cfrsful aK.iln last evening, and made two
BUCCCsjfu attacks on the
tight bank of
the Mcue. Bouthwest of Thlaumont
work they occupied several portions of
Gorman trenche and took 100 prisoners.
Including two officers and two machine
guii. In the eastern part of Vaux
Chapltre wood they advanced their line
10 ft yatds.
To-day's German statement, tele
graphed here via London, admits that
the great massed attack on the Homme
yesterday were barren of practical re
sult;. It say that south of Rancourt
i the German took and hold French
trenches. Hand grentds flihtlmr with
British troop Is mentioned. Th state
ircnt say :
Army of Crown Prlnc Rupprecht
North of the Homme, near Courcelstte,
there Is continuous hand grsntdt fight
ing. Enemy partial attacks near
Fieri, to th west of Les Boeufs and
north of Combles, were repulsed.
Southwest of Rancourt and In Bou
chuvesnes, ground which had been
previously won by our attacking
troops was lost after bitter fighting.
Hnuth of Rancourt our troops hold the
trenches taken by them.
Army of Crown Prince Frederick
William On the right bank of th
Meuae, In the Thlaumont-Fleury see-to.-,
enemy attacks which followed In
creased artillery activity, were re-
nulsed
I ..Ti,. ceneral situation la unchanged.'
says the offlcln "t'tement from British
I headquarter In France Issued to-night.
isnemy bombing attacks In the
MESDAO ART TO COME HEEE.
American Bay lint I re Collection of
Dates! Itfarlae Painter.
LownoN, Sept. 21. The private art
to Rcutcr's correspondent at The Hague,
The collection, consisting of about 800
pieces, Includes paintings, among them
xome of the J3arbltoti School ; ancient
historic tapestries, furniture and china,
Moxdag waa well known as a painter
of marines.
Fined for Plas a Dsnger Mlsjaal
For using tho American Hag ns a dan
ger signal at the back of his wagon,
Isador l.liansky. Ml Hnrdrkrr avenue,
llrooklyn, was fined $10 yesterday In
the Adams treet police court. H I
th second drlvar to ftnaa Ut th
oltanoa.
VILLA IN CHIHUAHUA
REPORTS GEN. BELL
American Commander Con
firms News of Bandit Chiefs
Entry on Sept. 16.
OPERA BOIJFFE "BATTLE''
Outlaw's Reported Welcome
by Cnrianza Troops Amazes
Washington.
, WaatliNUTO.f, Sept. Jl. An official
report from Rrlg.-Oen. George Bell, Jr..
Major-Gen. Frederick
nnounclng that Francisco
Villa, the bandit leader, had inarched
Into Chihuahua city and, was Joined by
officers of the staff of Gen. Jacinto Tre
vino, the Carranta eomntander, was re-
ceived with amatement by officials of
the .State and War departments to-day.
The unexpected report, which con
flicts with the representation made by
the Mexican members of the Joint com
mission now In session at New London,
Conn., may set at naught all of the Ad
ministration efforts to solve the Mex
ican problem by diplomatic meant.
Gen. Bell's report states that Villa,
after establishing hi camp twenty-two
miles from Chihuahua city, sent a let
ter to Gen. Trevlno saying he would en
ter the city at 3 o'clock on the following
day "to shake hand with him," and
asked that something rood to eat be ,
provided In advance for his arrival.
Villa, true to his .word, entered the
city, was seen by many there and made
a speech to the populace and the Car
ranta troop from the main balcony of
the Governor's palace, shouting "Viva
Mexico I You have not your liberty."
Carraaalata Weleoaaca Villa.
According to Gen. Bell's report Villa
waa received with open arms and no
shots were fired by the Carranstatas to
disturb his visit until he and his band
had left the city, lie went Into Chi
huahua city with a force estimated at
from &00 to 1,700 and ca.ne out with
1,500 Carranta followers, who deserted
the Carranta garrison of (.000. Tre
vino's own personal escort later de
r"'1 ym- nd when tha Villa fol-
lowers rode up to the Federal building
1.,".?...:? ,l"
villa calmly took off
j ... . ...
alxteen autns
loaded with ammunition and persuaded
Carranta'a artillery officer to accom
pany him with their artillery. Appar
ently the casualties among the Car
ranta troopa wera th result of later
firing by Carrantlstaa from Hanta Rosa
hill In pursuance of Trevlno's opera
bouffe order to fire after he knew Villa
was safely out of harm' way.
It Is admitted both at the Plate De
partment and at the War Department
"" '; IT" .J?
have a very
",' , , . '
meeting of
- , , . . . . . . i
1,,J nt1 co'"j!r.,0.n.i at .New l?"?0?-
"rtl,ern Mexico the effect of a so-called
ogrement with Carranta to maintain
Gen. Perahlnss'a Hands Are Tied.
In response to the n'lestlnn whether
Ilrlg.-Gen. John J. Pershing's command
would be despatched to "get" Villa. In
pursuance nf original orders. It was said
ut the War Department that this pro
cedure was highly unlikely. No effort
has been mad by Pershing to round up
Villa handlts since Carranta forbade
thla some months ago. A forward move
on Pershing's part would he dangeroim.
It Is explained, because of the fact that
Villa apparently Is stronger than ever
before and has won over troops and
civilians to his banner.
Gen. Rett In hi report says:
"Evidence Increases to show that Villa
was completely successful In his attack
Saturday upon Chihuahua and accom
plished all and moro than he said he
would do. There Is diversity nf opin
ion und statements as to the number of
men with which he entered Chihuahua.
"Kome account state he only had .100.
while others give him 1,700, but all
agree ho was able to secure nossesslon
of the penitentiary, the Governor's Pal-
ace and the Federal buildings and held
them for several hours, and all this with
a Carranta garrison al Chihuahua city
which no one places at less, than 6,000,
Liberated 200 Prisoner.
"He liberated over 200 prisoners, se
cured and carried away more than six
teen automobiles loaded with arms and
ammunition and actually took out ar
tillery under an escort of deserting Car
ranta troops. He lift Chihuahua with
from 1,000 to 1;50ft more men thnn he
entered.
"Villa retired lstsursly and practically
without molestation. The firing by Tre
vlno's artillery occurred after Villa
troops had withdrawn.
"On Heptembr 14 Trevlno received a
letter from Villa stating that he (Villa)
would be in Chihuahua to shake hunds
with Trevlno on the Iflth and he hoped
he would havo a suitable reception for
him, that he might be hungry and would
like to have something to eat. On the
ISth nf September It wa reported Villa
personally entered Chihuahua, was seen
by miny of his friends there and recon
noitred the city. Of course he was In
disguise, on the night of the 15th Villa
approached Chihunhua from a camp
which he had maintained for two days
within twenty-two miles of that city.
Bnndlt flora He Will Return.
"After Villa columns had secured pos
session nf the penitentiary, the Cover-
nnr's palace and the Federal buildings
I Villa himself went Into tho Governor's
palace, went to tn main balcony, ills,
played his face and made a short speech,
which In substance wa as follows: 'Viva
Mexico! You havo not your Ilhcty, I will
give you your liberty, for I nm your
brother. I nni golnp to return In" n few
days."
"It appear there had been n banquet
attended by most of Trevlno's officers
and that about 2 o'clock this banquet
was finished and most of the officer of
the Carranta garrison were asleep. As
soon nH Trevlno heard of the trouble he
started toward the Governor's palace,
but his personal escort deserted him and
ent over to Villa.
V "The party that attacked the Federal
building nine into tne nuuuing on horse,
back and the guard there deserted to
them. It Is reported that many of th
Carranta troops who went killed were
Continued oh Fourth Pog&.
I P.MORGAN LIBRARIAN
REPORTED ENGAGED
Mother of Miss Belle C. Grecno
at Rye, N. Y., Refuses to
Deny Betrothal,
A report yesterday that Miss Belle C.
Greene, librarian of the J, Plerpont Mor
gan Library, was-engaged to bo married
unit imrii.it in niif. thnnuli prrnrts I
to reach Miss Greene failed. Tie re-i!l
port was printed In a weekly publication.
Mia Greene' mother at her summer
home In Rye, N. Y., discussing the re
port when It wa brought to her atten
tion. Intimated strongly that Miss Greene
would shortly make formal announce
ment of her approaching engagement
"In my daughter's absence 1 would not
care to say anything definite about her
engagement Just yet," Mrs. Greene said,
"but undoubtedly she herself will have
something to say about It when she re
turns." "If the report were not true," Mrs.
Greene was asked, "you would certainly
deny It?"
"Yes, I think I would," Mrs. Greene re
plied. "But at this time I would rather
have my daughter make any announce
don't you think? No. 1 do no care to
give the name of the gentleman and In
fact would prefer to say nothing until I
my daughter is at liberty to speak her-1
Mlf ,
Mlsa Greene. It wa said. Is vlsltlna i
friends In Mount Klsco, N, Y. She has I
been th Morgan librarian for many '
year. I
WILSON ACTS ALONE 1
ON BLOCKADE ISSUE
President's Advisers and Lan-
sing at Odds Over Retalia
tion Against British.
TVAtiiiNOToy, Sept. 21: Tresldent
Wllon' political advisers and Secretary
Lansing are at odd. over th, legal aapect
of the retaliatory le.l.l.t.on passed by ;
Congress as a potential weapon against
th British blockade.
...,rf K ,v,. ... ,.,.'
Annoyed by the fact that the State
Department's legal experts regard the !
legislation as unsound and unenforce- j
able, rrenident Wilson, It It raH, ha.i
now practically taken the matter out of
Secretary Lansing's hands and will base
hi future action on his own Initiative. I
It I understood Secretary Lansing has
made a stiff fight for the observance of opinion of the nuthors. Including Jack
legal precedents In legislation aimed at , lxmdon. the action would be "luappro
the British blockade from the Inception prlnte. disadvantageous and dangerous."
of this plan by the President's political I The authors in their protest to other
adviser. He has demolished most or the members of the league, lest their position
political proposals, but there remains. It , i,h misunderstood, also say they consider
Is explained, enough In the legislation In- huM an alliance would be unfortunate,
corporated In the revenue bill to put this und pro-cut reasons for this belief.
Government on record as piopnslng In Tho question of affiliation with the Fed
certain emergencies to do something It , cnitlon nf Ijtbor has be. n causing con
hus no legal right lo do. ud,.r.ible agllatlon imiotiK the nu mbers
fTri-iriiiij Miiinuiit iii4lu l its pn nf .lip IiMffll
questionable, whether the provisions for j ho " , fli
''? "":- '"-rin.inat.n";0t;cr!:
Secretary Uinalug regards It as very
ing uauinsi American goins anil mr jay- tjlf advls.iblllty of the step. After sev
Ing retaliatory embargoes could bn put i ,.rH ,.Cks consideration the sub-corn-into
effect legally. The best Judgment at , ,nttee reported favorably on the pro
the State Department Is that these pro-1 untCi action
visions are unsound. The practice nf.
letting out cargo space on tlmo charter) lleferemlnm A Breed t'pnn.
would admittedly relieve ni'wt of the , , , ..... ,a
British ship omiera from the possibility ' , referendum xote by the 1..101 mem
of their shipments being held up. rJ "f ,h I"' wis agn-cd upon May
Mr. Lansing Is understood to believe!19 'j"1, ascertain the general sentl
also that any attempt to detain u ship '", be authors concerning the plan,
for -refusal to accept American minds TJi affiliation ran only come about
would be a direct violation of American through the approval of a majority of
commercial treaties, which must be held I ,np ,"'m,,r" ! ne of the regular meet
Inviolate fnd which stipulate that "ships ,,f
admitted to American harbors must be' statement Is vngue a lo the pre-
permitted to leave." The consensus of ' cl,, wav wlfh affiratlon with the
legal opinion nt the State Department Is ' Federation of Labor will lnlp to accom
to the effect that unless these treatles'are I'Uh any of the many alms of the Au
to be regarded as mere "scraps of paper"
th legislation placed at the President's I test. "It Is barren of definite aesurnnre tremendous moral effect upon Republl
.ii T.i i...T... Ti .i..u ii... .i c.i n s and I'rogres s 1 Vcs evervnhere nmt
dlsnrmal In without efect.
The flltrtcultlcH which Secretary Lan- tages of 'staiulanllse.1 contracts In the
slug and Counsellor Polk have encniin- publishing, inagiitliie mid theatrical busl
tercil with the political advisers nf Pres. iicsse.V but It falls lo produce any cvl
Ident Wilson have been many and varied ' denee or even any argument that the
The President, now that the campaign Is proposed affiliation would aid In attain
on, has given evidence of n delre tn Ing then' advniitages.
overrule opinions at the Plato Depart- 1 "The statement seems to Indicate that
ment. the most palpable recent case bo- the A lithnrs league may secure the sup
ine the overruling nf Mr. Pnlk's objec
Hons to ceitain features of tho blacklist
controversy on the ground that they
would not stand the test of law.
TEETH TRADED FOR MIND.
Woman's Mental Faculties Ite-
atorrd by Dental Operation.
Cured through the extraction of all
her teeth. .Mrs. Lloid Warfteld of Spcii
certown. N. Y.. Is likely to become of
considerable Interest to medical men and
alienists.
Early last February she showed evi
dence of mental depression. Her con
dition rantdly grew worse and soon she
was unable, to attend to her household
duties or care for her children, a girl of
9 and a boy of 2 years,
Rh f .ll.a tn Imnmv. In a T. .ml.
tnrlum. and her husband was considering
sending lier to tne mate hospital nt
I'ooehkeeiihle. when Ihe famllv i.l.v.tclm.
suggested Hint as a last resort all her
teeth be drawn. '
When tho teeth were extracted It was
discovered that several molars had uleern
at the roots. No sooner had Mrs. War -
field stepped from tho dentist's chair
than her full niental faculties returned,
Her children, who had been sent to a rel -
atlve ut Mnrtlndalc, N. Y.. returned yes
terday und a Joyous family reunion fol
lowed
WOMAN HELD AS KIDNAPPER
From
Arcased of Taking; llnliy
Carrlaae In Urnokln.
Mrs. Dora Hlrand. SM Trcmont ave -
i "" T1'e Bronx, was locked up In ihc
Gates avenue nollco station, llrooklyn.
ul.ni.ilt nflA. I.iut mliliflr-hl fli,i.nit will.
kidnapping the three- cur-old daughter 'w'lin'nm C. lie Mills
of Mrs. Fannie Abrnmowltt, 13? Grand Thonin Dixon
street, Brooklyn. '"; "ouhlil?.
The child disappeared Wednesday Jl!', Rr.K
from 11 bnbv carrluga In front of lhnj. Urri Kr-'iiwein
Grand street address, Mrs. Hlrand te-1 earlier Klliiimi'
turned tho little girl yesterdny. hut Inld f,"!"?... J, " "
.. - "... ...... ......
ho many confllcllng stories ns to the
place she found the child tha.t the pollco
al,lna m hnbt her i
decided to noiil nei.
BnPT.TrP. RETS 2 ifORE 'PIAWFS
ilUiliiiA.Ii UtilO A HURL rhnniiB,
-
Fa minis German Aviator's Mpnre Is
v. uh Hurled lirnun.i.
.Rkm.in, via London, Sept. SI. Cnpt.
Bnelke, Germuny's most famous nvlalnr,
brought down on Wcdneaday two Kn
tento aeroplanes.
This make his total twenty-eight ma
ehlats dlood of during th war.
DEFIES HEALTH BOARD
AND KEEPS HER BABY
Sure. He Is Not Victim of
Paralysis, Mother Locks
Out Doctor.
Cheered by a crowd of women neigh
bors who were prepared to aid her
If necessary, Mrs. Anton Anderson of
ISO New York nvcnue. Jamaica, stood
of h"r ylorday afternoon
and noncfl Health Department auacnen
to enter her home and remove to a con
taglon hospital her nlnetecn-months-old
son Robert.
Tile Health Depaitmeut has listed the
child as n sufferer from Infantile paraly
Ms. Ills mother eays three Jamaica
physicians have diagnosed his only ail
ment as a slight and rnptdly disappear
Inn lameness following malaria.
A quarantine sign was tncked on the
house and "yesterday un ambulance ap
peared, bearing Dr. l,ouls Cohen, a
nurse. Miss Williams: an orderly and
a policeman.
"Go right ahead and break In It you
'Ink , . ' An
th",u?h Havocked screen.
"' f "?, ,k"?f 'ny, ''"hJL'.u
, Dr;.tohen 1'dn'1 thln 11 b"ti b.7,i
In. Neither did the policeman. o after
I"""- w llf,tea- TJt,n
Anderson opened the door while her
neighbors crowded about to shake her
hand.
AUTHORS IN REVOLT
OVER JOINING UNION
Bund Together In Protest
Against Affiliation With
Labor Federation.
Jack London, defender of trade union-1
Ism and nuthor of "The Iron Heel." ha .
refused to Join the union Bo. toe have
George Ade. Cyrus Townsend Brady.
John Burroughs, Winston Churchill.
.Hamlin Gnrlar.d. Umcraon Jiougn.
t.,i, - T inentn ttrsnder Matthews i
Joseph C. Lincoln, liranaer siatinews
and a host of others.
The writers, all members of the Au-
thr ls America, have banded
together In a proteat against the pro-'
. , ,.,-,,- , lV,.
',0'"!, a,mltlo nf the Uarue with he
Amerlcwn Federation of Labor. In the ,
nf the league ever slnco April Z", when
ve committee of the l.-.igue
ittinlnfml 11 kiin.nnrnTnll inrt In renorf nn
. ors Leaeue," sny th antl-uninn pro
on any point. II dwells on the ndvan
,,01t of th, Federation of Ijxlior and Its
srveritl unions without any obligations
on our part, legal nr moral, stated nr
Implied, to render to the federation or to
Its unions any reciprocal nipjmrt of any
kind, Such n proposal s absolutely un
acceptable, since It l one sided, unfair
anil wholly unworthy of the Authors
League."
The protest nf the nntl-unlon party
also declares that di.ciisnns would be
caused by .llsiusslnns of labor questions'" the national advisory board of the
If the lengue affiliated with the reitera-
tlon and were called upon to lake action
o labor difficulties.
Manera tit Protest.
The younger set In the Authors League
together with a considerable number of
older writers, Is In favor of the affilia
tion. Winston Churchill, president of
, till. leUL'llC 1 folir llOHOr.ir.V VlCe.pfCSl-
dents. John Burroughs. Hiinilln Garland.
' liranuer .nuum-.i ..' .imi-.u- """ -
. as. und a number of members of the
, council me nun " " " i..u-ih.i.
' Others slnlng the protest, some of whom
nine thicateiicn in resign u uiv aniiia -
llou Is carried out, are:
1 t.onl IS ' An-niuher llurii-. Johnson
1 l-vini lsi.-l"Hrr Itiiliert P Joiiiison
WlYli'lm'"'."",,,
, Anills II Knr Arthur I. Keller
Sniiuirl II llljttie ni-u kimjt
Viruiiila I'riucr Uoylc Kiiin befevre
Alit-c llronn John mLulher Long
I'orter K llronne Don Mtrquls
i Uninri II r.runncr Annie Nathan Meyer
I llietisnt Durtnn Meretitb Miholon
'(I, M, W. Caldwell l.lnvd O.liouine
.inl... A n.-irnpiiler Vlll Payoi-
,Jne Miletall Cii.nuile .'ohii S, Phillips
ji, c Cliat (l.t-Taylor ( lisnnlnr 1'ollo. k
Hlehsrit W Tlilld lieorro llmen I'litiimn
I Irvln Cobb lyiwurrt gulolunl
! t'rr'Xn iiS Y'wli
bonis A.. Cnollilee
loin nop.iiorn
' Mar tuewnrt Cuttlnr ""''en 11. s.hsuffler
T A. Ijalv
nnts-rt J. Shnrei
.. Tl...l..d
Willi on M Kln.ins
Frank J. Hpramie
.liillan SI n et
Ids M Tsiliell
Charles Trultt
V I r a 1 1 1 1 ix Terhune Von
lie Water
I.onl .'oicph Vancr
Charles Stokrs Wsyne
Henry K Wrhitrt
Maximilian Foster
1 aroiyti vell
Theo.loila Harrison P.111I JJcM
V.'ll nm (lllletle 'nle Dnuslss Vlf n
'rnsrles lluxinn nnint Cimnhin Wllllsmt
l.'..nnn.l U II tn.l.ll II I. fill I'll Wl.lrl.
I Hleil flr.int Helen S. Woodruff
n.lr10n Hmilltnn Rdward Mott Wnolley
1 Oliver Herford
The tiphnlders nf the union Idea may
! respond lo the protest of their conservn-
tlve brothers with a statement before the
question Is brought tn a vote.
IIKWKY'H WINKH IIRACK ANY TARI.K
I'ure. wntiiasoius, usiu-iuuii, vsi iiiexpen
slvt. ll Fulton a 11 Nassau at.. I. T.
I'hons 1011 con. An:
TAFT AND T.R. BURY
HATCHET OCTOBER 3
Elihu Root to Li -lit Pipe of
Peace at Union League Re
ception to Hughes.
RklWKLDS PARTY CHAIN
Willcox and Bacon Credited
With Bringing Together of
the Former Presidents. .
Theodore Roosevelt and William 11.
T.ift, 'four ears ago rival candidates
for the Presidency, aie to meet and shake
hands at a reception at the Union League
Club on Tuesday, October .". Charles
U. Hughes will be the guet of honor.
The meeting of the two ex-I'resldcnts
Is expected to mark the cllmux of tho
festivities carefully arranged as a tri
umphant token or a reunited party.
This will he the first real meeting
of the two men since September, ll"ltf,
when Col. Roosevelt, with Senator
Lodne, Wslted Mr. Taf. nt Beverly
eliortly after Mr. Roosevelt's return from
Africa. The meeting was not nt all
cordial. They were both present ut
the funeral of Whltelaw Rcld. But since
the bitter campaign of four years wro
tho two have been careful to avoid
being In th same place at the same
time.
F.mvh Has Accepted.
The acceptance by Col. Itoorevelt and
Mr. Taft of Invitations to the iecrp
tlon and the promise of both to be pres
ent, with full knowledge of what was
Intended, crowns with success the per
sistent efforts ""which friends, political
and social, have been making In the
last month to accomplish what In their
minds would be one of the most sletilll
cant features of the present campaign.
It was the cause of great congratu
lations among Republicans when the
l news became known at the club Innt
1 evening and rapidly spread to other po
Thf reception to Mr. Hughes will
litical centres.
bring together not only Col. Roosevelt
Mr. tClhu na.-";
' to 1,1m consuently Jo weieome
!, Hoosevclt as the guest of the club,
tne laner nas not ciarkenert its aoors
Ior several years, mis, noaever. win
..olin,i m,i, f Mp Ti.,ot i,i
Cid. Roosevelt, the Bacon luncheon of I
rl sprln.t having brought them together
I for the first time since tho split In 1 y 12
Abaat 3.000 at Love Feast.
According to Information obtained last
evening at the club, the reception will lie
limited to member of th club and one
guest apiece. This will mean. It la ex
pected, that about 3,000 persona will at
tend this Republican love feast, perhaps
the most Interesting feature of the cam
paign of IhIA.
Kfforts are now being made to get
Joseph II, Choate and Chauncey M.
Deew to round out the bill of Repub
lican warhorses which the club will pre
sent that evening. There will be some
speeches, but Just how many has not
b(,, ,icf'd.(1. AI, th deta,g of th(1 nf.
fair. It was said at the club, are In the
hands of Mr. Root.
Although a number of leading Repub
lican hnve been working quietly nn the
plan for brlnalng Roosevelt and Taft
together, credit for this political coup Is
'li- 'i.i'f ., n,?.,,, -Vl'l"na Chairman
mi.ua. ..ir. vtmco nas
licen having great success ns a lur-
mnnlter in this campaign, but this un-
...mm.-..,, ni yi noun ns nit greatest
achievement. He was assisted by close
friends of both, Including, It Is snld, Rob
ert Bacon, who arranged the lunchcun
at which Mr, Root waa present.
Bolh CoDsalted First,
Convinced th.it a meeting nf the two
men. If It could be staged, would luxe a
cans and Progressives everywhere and
ghe nn Immense stimulus to the campagn.
Mr Willcox and those associated with
him conceived the Idea of n reception
more or less private In character, us the
best means for accomplishing their ob
ject. The I'nlon Lengue Club nt once
suggested Itself as the liest place fur
this, nn account nf Its historic relation
to the party, Col, Knosetclt was the
first to accept the Invitation. Mr. Taft's
acceptance arrived only a few days ago.
Both In the meantime had been ap
proached by their friends regarding the
object, which paved the way for tlielr
formal acceptances.
Invitations to the members of the club
for tho reception will be Issued neM
week.
Taft and Roosevelt are both members
''"' ""-";-
1 brought them In contact. Both arc to
I 'leak for Mr. Hughes In the campaign.
WAVY FLIER IN COLLISION.
lilt Fishing; Smack In
I'eal
nnil Da ma rcs Winn.
Nr.wror.T News, Va Sept. 21. Testi
of the N-D Hying bint, tinder the super
vision nf the Government Mivni Aero
',, ir,i here to-dnv were Interrupted bv
Bniird here to-cin. wen imrrn i ini
collision with
tlshlnc Hiii.u'k. In
,vll,.i, one of the wing of the Ibvr was
, " "I one the ing oi u
, ,,.'.,,, .
I Tlie macniiie ucveiopeu .1 maximum
speed of (' nillen -an hour nnil a min
I Imuni of il miles. It was designed tu
I iiiakn a maximum of il.'i miles and min
imum 01 !.. .ilPiuncie 1.1 10- nvm
Hoard euld the tests were successful
rnmi every standpoint.
The Government has ordered thirty ii,onx after nlttlit limJ t In. Aildltlon.il 1 lfXh"T, '"nf'ren.-p. v nuiil aft .r,l 1 Jus
of the filers for tho naval Gallon ' 1 i.,t re under con-
station at Pensacola. Fla. Other. aa I r?i.rA lIiA-lui".!. in casii the tars houiil I 'f'","' !Tmp ' rni"!'iirii?'-a t p i.n'r
yet to be test.il, I ... onera.d It was d.vl.ieil nut to r of.. . J '' V." ' . ' ..nr:
SACHS ADDS TO HARVARD GIFT.
4 0,000 Will Go to CollPlte oa
Dentil of New York Bnnker,
r&-.innmoc. Mash.. Sent. 2 1. -I larvard
will receive $-10,000 tn perpetuille tho
sini-h. research fellowship In line arts
upon the death of Samuel Sachs, a Now
llim IIHII-.CI. I. nnix'ii .-..,..
The Sachs fellowship was rounded last
March, Its donor pinmlslnc t'.'.nort an
nually during his lifetime, for lis sup
port. Slnco then he has written to Pres.
ident I 0 well announcing the addition to
the gift.
lOO for I. sell en Inn; Tnliaeeo,
On condltlnn Hint they do not use to-
bacco during th'ir Mudent enrs, ns
iilrants fur
r the ministry win earn re
celve $100. uccnrdillg to the will of
Mosei Ye.iton, 1171 Forty-fifth street,
Brooklyn, who died September 2 at
Manchester, Vt. This provision applies
only tn members of the Borough Park
and Greenwood Baptist churches of
Brooklyn and the Middle Street UapUat
Church ot PorUraouth, N. H.
LAST PLEA TO END STRIKE FAILS;
MAYOR READY TO CALL TROOPS;
DRASTIC UNION MOVE TO-DAY
45 NIGHT CARS RUN
WITHOUT VIOLENCE1
Police in Automobiles, on Mo
torcycles and Horseback
Follow Them.
Foily-Mkc surface cars ere mil In J
.iannaiian last nlglit. This was the
largest number to be operated after I
nightfall since the beginning nf tho 1
strike.
Patrolmen on the front platforms, plain
clothes men on the streets, special detail
In automobile patrols und rustlers squads
of motorcycle men und mounted olllcer
all were sent out to protect tho crews
and passengers of these cars.
The surface cars were despatched on i
the crosstown routes, mid had a stranscr i
from the West dropped In last night on j
mi) ol uic greai inorouKiiiares ne miKiii
na-e suspected that mnttini law iuj
Ih-cu declared. Wordluivlnggoneout from
Police Headuuarters yesterday that
there was to he no repetition of the riots I
on Tuesday and Wednesday nights every
bluecout on duty was on Ill's toes, but
nt 1 1 o'clock last night the police In
spectors In the storm centre the upper
West Sldu and llnrlein reported all
nulct. In the West Forty-seventh and
West Slxty-elshth street stations, which
had resounded with culls for help earlier
In the week, the reserves had time hani
Inn heavily on their hands.
Only Tno Arrests Are Made,
Along I'orty-seoond, Klfty-nlntli and
lil.'.th streets tliouamts nlio had to
travel across town preferred, to do It '
bue t d west Ju.t Uy h.
though the surface cars were not in Hr.
urc. crowds liung anmnn waiting or
f-ometnins to liappin. mil ine ponce iir-
vi,.H t,t .n.i no hnr.eb.eu and In
motors beforo any demonstrations could
be started. Tuesday and Thursday had
seen the police with their guard iown.
but not last night. Tho 125th street
route in particular was well guarded
from the Fort Lee ferry to First avenue.
Two arrests were mado at hlghtletn
street and Lexliuton avenue, but thoso
were shortly befoie tho night service
waa started. A few stones were hurled
and that disturbance wua over.
Among the additional draft of po
lice for strike duty last night In Man
hattan were some 200 mounted men who
had been stationed on the river fronts
In anticipation of the longshoremen's
strike. They ere camping out on rec
reation piers and Mcumshlp docks when
the bugles sounded to "bojti and sad
dles." The determination reached by the New
York Railways and tho Third Avenue
Railway companies to run a limited ser
vice at night followed and was the re
sult of a gain by all the surface lines In
the city In the daylight hours. Of the
forty-five cars In use last night six each
were on Fourteenth. Twenty-third,
Thirty-fnurth. Fifty-ninth, listh ana
i isju, streets. Four were sent out along
Kighty-alxth street and live alone Forty-
second. The railroads Intended to run
all until 11 nr 12 o'clock and the 1'.
5lh
street lino all nlciit.
Wood to Grt .1011 Special Police.
Police Commissioner Arthur Wood"
said yesterdny that he had communi
cated with 300 men on the eligible list
for patrolmen und had offered to take
them as special olllcers for the strike at
a salary nf ( 1,33 a day. This plan
probably will bo accepted by u large
number of tho men.
The city magistrates had their hands
full yesterday In disposing of the many
strike cases growing nut of the riot on
Tuesday and Wedneslay nights. Magls
trate Fitch In the Ixing Island City court
sent two men to the workhoue. Magls- I There neems no doubt that the mem
trates Fintliliighmii In the Yorkvllle und hers of the lintel Coiitini ntal conference,
Alcijunde In the West Sldo court also brought face to fa with n big light, will
handed out Jail terms. Harney Martin attempt tu c.lrrv out their threat to par
of 31? West Forty-ninth street, charged nlyte the transit service, the huslnesi
wltli hitting Cart. IMwurd Dempsey of and tlininilustri.il life of the city. From
the West Sixty-eighth street police sla- the hints dropped hv th union men at
tlon with a Mime, was held In 2.O0O ball tt. 1 f ot-l Continental last nlpht tho next
for trial, and others accused of tho same ,,tfJ, ,nay i. one of three thltwa:
felony were held. Ktti nriVv oriIpr t0 hout
Hie pollco have put a crimp In the S0 0(l,p lln011 lmn worklrs on Joba that
pi i . """ "i
Third uveuun surface lines, but the ele-'
;i;Ll, . ""m , , ""
tZl0S:SlPT'
..... ... ...... ...... v J'D.,J " J 111V
bluccoats detailed tn the elevated lines
than nt any time since the strike started
and the arrests have been few and far
between.
Fewer Accidents llepnrlrd.
A decieae In the number of ..ecldents
was noted vestcrday. but Airs. Annie
Pemlnsky of ia:'ii Fifth avenue was 1
struck by an automobile filled with
strike bteakers In front of 2i.10 Thltd
nvenite and Injured so that she died
later In the llailem Honpltil The driver
of the automobile, John Smith of F.lin
hurst, L. l was aitesteil charged wltli
honilclde and drlvlnit without a llceuso,
Tlie I'nlon Railway Company did not
follow the example set last night by the
0flle!ab nf the green nd red car lines.
. v mrf.. ,i,, i m.
, , - ,1... .... 11,.. i..A..t,
I III) HM' urn i nr.-p.-..v.ini.i "io'- tni.im
1
ng crews Into ho o . I g 'V'1.r';,,".nf
ngsbrldge. V akefle d i nMUslcl, ester
K
village. In fact the niotornien mid con
ductors were not ut all anxious to make
the attempt.
With tlm erosstmvn car.i absent nt
night, the bues, trucks nnd iiiuo noinies
, that do Jitney duty on HMh street
conllniu d their trips nil nlnht, They ran
from Thl id iivenue nnd HOth stieet to
Broadway and HSth street
BIG GUN ON MICHIGAN BURSTS.
(Ine .Mini Injured lu 1'lrlna Teat
lnmrd Ilattlrslilp.
WasIIINOTOn. Sept. 21, Admiral
Muyn. cnminaiidlnR the Atlantic fleet,
- 1 teported tn-dny that a 12 Inch gun on
- 'the battleship juewgan nun exploded
'terday during tiling tests nn aho
Southern drill grounds, the milztle being
blown to pieces, seriously Injuring one
man,
The Michigan wns ordered to the
Philadelphia Navy Yard for repair.
The name of the Injured man waa not
given tn the Admiral' report
Labor Leaders Threaten to
Call Out flO.000 at 2 V. M.
to Aid Car 31 en.
31 ITCH KL IX WARNING
ACJAIXST MOB 1U'L12
Wearers of Cuion Buttons
to Hedged to Quit Work
and Keep Off Cars.
INTKItllOIiO HLAMKD
IIVCITVEXKCCTIVE
Violation of AllfJf. o0 AjIVC
ment Charged 3len Also
Are Criticised.
Earnest iff 1. 1' Is to find u niitli(.,l of
settling the cur stilkc fulled yesterday.
Tho citizens' committer, .Mayor Mltchcl
and Oscar Straus, chairman of the.
I'ubllo Service cornmlHslon. wcro un
able to find a baMi for pence negotia
tions between the men .ind thulr cm
ployetn.
Thtre seems to be Httlo doubt that a
conference nf labor leader at the Hotel
Continental lit '2 o'clock to-day will Is-
1 suc ordc "hM w " effcct ca
I widespread strike.
A probable move U to order every
. union man to milt work on the plea of
being unable tu Kct to work without
endangering his llfo by riding on a
strike brenker'M car.
Samuel Gompers, president of tho
American Federation, who liu been
reported not In full nymp.ithy with tho
proposed widening of tho strike, an
luunced that ho will back the atrlkrr
to the limit.
Col. Michael J. Reagan of the State
Roatd of Mediation and Arbitration an
nounced yesterday that he will begin un
Investigation of the caues of the strlki
on Monday. He pallid the situation "tlm
moit menacing that ever threatcm-d the
prosperity of the people of Now York."
Mayor Will I'sr Troops.
Mayor Mltehel sent a letter to Hugh
Fmyne, rh.ilrnun of tho Continental
oonfetence, warning him .igulnat calling
full "civil and military powers" will bu
. used to prevent disorder,
1 Thrndoie Shnnf. president of the In
, trrlmioUKh mid the "Kreen c.ir" Hiick.
i iued a booklet last night citing In-
stances nf violence and disorder :iad call
ing upon the Histoid Attorney and tho
Grand Jury tn take action.
Krnest lloehtn. labor leader and ona ot
the Continental lintel conferees, said on
leaving the Mayor's meeting, "We shall
go on with nur work to-morrow of call
ing a Reiier.il ctrilc '
Invents of the last few days have
shown that the trutlnn companies are
prepared to tight to hold their position
of absolute refill :il tn deal with tho union.
Members of niRmuzed labor throughout
the city say tin- ciiix nf tho preeent con
troversy is ttie rrrosnltlnn of the unlen;
that It Is tho battle which every union
i man or woman imrt wage.
I hive some bearing on the city's trans-
mutation lines.
Second, a general strike order to every
man Tn the city, involvlw about
SOu.ilftrt workers.
Third, un otder tn every union mem
ber to stop, work nn h plea not of Join
ing In a sympathetic strike but of being
unable to reach his work without endan
gering his life by tiding on a atrlke
breaker's oar.
Sjmpallipllp "trlle Snbstllnt.
That the union men may renrt to this
scheme Insttad or calling 11 itcner.it strike
Is expected frr.11 the deinind made bv
the union men upon Mivnr Mltehel yen.
terdiy to fiinrl'li tranipoti.cnn for or
aanlz.'d labor tn rm li :ln.r wntk with
out having to put their 1 v. In danger
by riding nn cars or trains that needed
the protection nf Ihe police.
, " "'','"c,: was xnininco: lost
I 'lt-'l't by Hugh M i.vi.e. . halrm.ui nf the
' nnrrint'ii rtJ,,i'.iiuin w u'm- nmruci
Other unions In sc.tl.m: en ,,mversfs
, , , ,., , M , similar
agieements. The .ii;jiiineni w is made
list evening Hint If the unlnn men re
fused to rldo on slilke bteal.i'is' car' be
causo nf fear fnr lln- r In a they would
not be violating tlic'r rontr.i.'t
Th unlnn men pointed tn 11 legal de
cision that In their opinion jutlllcH such
a step. President T, V. O'Connor of th
International Longsliori men's Associa
tion had a master's license for n tugboat
I rir, 1 .'V. ,..
rn.nr . . ... . .-v-
curred nnd policemen were Hastened tn
gunid tho tugs. Thereupon the captilr.s
refused tu work on the ground that tluy
wero endangering their lives.
Immediately legal steps were starts I
to deprive O'Connor and others of their
governmental llreniie, but the court held
that the law did not compel tin ni in
jeopardize their lives.
The emphuMa laid upon this d"i ion
rave rise to the hint last night tlm' the
union men could resort tn a similar ie
vice In connection with the i-arni' m's
etrik.
That they are determined to e.iuy nil
n
