zz:::ws uktzztl
V. ft WF-AfjlKR BDREAD
Kept. 11, IWIrt ttiftfall last
-twenty-four hour, .02 lnsg.ee.
Temperature: min., J2; Mt.,
SI.. Weather, partly cloudy.
UTIST CAOID scca QUOTATIONS
M OeatrtfnireJ.- H. I. pr lb. fr to
Price, EtwiUU baaul B.3 4 1 16.00
La ynvlraa qiioU-
s.err tns.7
VOL. TX, NO. 7 79
HONOLULU, . HAWAII TERRITORY, " : PR t DAY S PTE M B Eft "-22; Zl9l6. -SEMI-WEEKLY
WHOLE NUMBER 4550
111
i
IIIiliOlEI: 1IY m m
' , ;. .: , i ' ' ' '
wim
V-
P 7)
bit..
n;i bv
m
HI OF
VILLA RAID
Official Statement, Sent Home By
General Belt Is Discredited By
.Advisers of Administration As
Simply 'Mere Border Rumors'
ONE THOUSAND MEN SAID ?: Y
j TO HAVE JOINED BANDIT
Carranzista Leaders Repeat
Their; Former Announcements
of Victory In Fighting On Out
skirts of City of ;Chihuahua
(AModMMl Tttu if r'nl WlMlaw)
W.VMIUNQTON, flptcmW .22
Widely eoiitrftdlotory wport re
.v ' gtirding the litttle betwrea the
Cr faoto' troopt and' the bandita ander
Villa, in the ouUkirta of the City ot
Chibuabua, laHt wekr continue to cause
jiDraainca In ofWal el re lea here.
The nolitina) effect of a Villa Tie-
,tory anywhere in the north of Meiieo
v 'vtilrf fowfrful, it ia admitted, and
official of. the administration are loath
to brlirve tlio bandit " ehlaf taia is a
frarg wrtna of tbeacepuott of the
Rattle indicate him to txs. , ,
Oca. Franklin Bell has forwarded
HttrftrmMHtfce-vs)e 4ei)tBiiit
op the Villa Yald on tte XMty of Chi-
ImHiis, It bih the Amqrieao eooV
ntander (rtat fhll fRe oatlsws ca
tured a number of Carranxa Rims and
liberated more than 300 prisoners who
were being held br the de fscto gov
ernment in the prison of the City of
(Tiilnmhua. , .
Federal PaUce Taken
The bandits are said to bnve taken
tlm federal palaee after a stiff tight,
nnd as soon aa the Carranaistaa were
cleared .out of the city Villa mounted
to one of tbe balconies and addressed
the crowds in tbe plaza. As a leeult
of this address more than 1000 persons
of tbe city are said to have east in
their lot with the VUlistaa and loft the
city when the band departed.
(lenernl Bell reports also that a nnm-'
ler of other federal buildings fell Into
the hnnds fit the bandita. Villa, adds
the Bell statement, baa sent a letter to
General Treviao announcing that he
would "be in Chihuahua on Ratnrday
afternoon to shake bands with your ex
cellency." Officials Art Doubtful
The source of Boll's information is
Jiot known here, but official bt lief is
general that he founded hi repcrt on
t border rumors." The rumors here
regarding Villa are eonfusing in their
multiplicity. Home oftiuiala profess to
believe that the bandit chief is dead,
while other declare that they are cer
tain ere led the fighting against Trevino.
Wur department official declared
that they did tot believe the VUlistaa
contemplated .attacking the line of
(leneral Pershing, although they ad
mitted tli nt sticb U thing were possible,
Trerino Claims Victory
Report from El Paso quote General
Garcia, the Curransa commandant in
Junrez, across the Bio Grande from tbe
Texas city, as having announced tbe
receipt tif a telegraph measage from
General Trevino, reafllrmiag the earlier
reports of u de facto government vic
tory. 'the nii'sxage placed the bandit's loss
nt 2A0 and the Curranxa loss at flftyt
three,
COMMISSIONERS TO
DISPROVE STATEMENT
NfcAV I.ONIX)N, Connecticut, Septem
Im't 3. Hi'ports of a Villa success in
the flghtiue io the City of Chihuahua
ttro truuhlini; the Mexican members of
the joint International peaue commis
sion, in sesnion hero, and it was an
nounced lust night that they hoped to
be uhle to disprove the rumors by of
ficial ueeouuts of the battle between
the bandit leader and General Trevino.
The feeling among them apparently
wrn that the intimations based on the
reports that tbe dt facto government is
not able to maintain order in northern
.Mexico, urn unjust to the Carranzu
overumeut, and they expect to show
these official stetemeats that the
troops of General Trtvino have the
situation in Chihuahoa well in hand.
At yesterday's session tbe commis
sioners diu-ussed the Withdrawal of
General Tcndiing' command from
Mexico, a one of the chief point in
the settlement of the dispute between
the two governments, but no progress
was made, the American Commissioners
remaining (li'm in the stand they have ,
luaen on inai (juesiien.
British Routing GQimans flut of Dugouts,
i .
c
i,
I y
y.
- f
i ii
v v - ' .
. ' ', , -
' K : ';; "' y :: ;
Waatx ai .jfc aiU.ntkJ. . - hi sii - . i Ti ti i Sim am , , i
Refiners Boost
Price of Sugar
For All Grades
Advance of Ten Cents the Hun
dred Pounds Announced By
'Pacific Coast Interests
(AssocUUd Press by FtdtTil Wlrsists)
HAN FKANCIHCO, September 2'1ln
sympathy with the rapid and spectacu
lar advance in the price of raw sugar
in the New York market, Pacific fount
refiners today advanced tbe price of till
grades of refined sugar, ten cents the
hundred pounds. Quotations by whole
salers In this market and tributary ter
ritory now stand at six-twenty, while
retailers have advaaeed the orice of
cane granulated to seven-twenty.
This leaves the differential between
raw and refined only seven. dollars and
forty cents the tow, which is much less
than it costs the refiners to prepare raw
sugar for consumption, if they hud to
buy raws for immediate melting at
yesterday's New York quotation of
Ave-eighty-three.
The refiners' interest Ilea in keeping
the prices of grauulatad down in ordei
to stimulate consumption. Should raw
enunr values continue to pyramid there
will further advances ia granulated.
MORE ELASTIC TARIFF
LAWS ARE DEMANDED
(Associated Press br TtitnX Wireless.)
NEW YORK, September 22 The
National Foreign Trade Council,
through its Investigating committee,
has reported that greater elasticity in
the country's tariff laws ia needed, an, I
that it will be absolutely neevsxary It'
the United Ktutes is to .meet on any
thing like equal terms the competition
sure to come after the. close of the war.
The report states that "the creation
of a tariff commission should help very
materially in accomplish Iiil' this ob
ject." GREEK STEAMER IS SUNK
(AsseetsU4 Prsss by sosrsl Wlrslsss)
LONDON, Heiitember C2 Lloyds n
nuuneed last niglit tbnt it hid reeeived
reports of the siokinff of the Greek
s.trncns nd tbe landtag of
her erew. The Assimacos was a small
sieaiuvr
registering 1HHU uvt tons
burden.
Promises Broken By Democrats
oi v.. j ...;
Hughes Again Attacks Bourbons
AssocUt4 Prsss by rsdsrsl Wireless.)
KOKT WAYNE. Indiana, September
-- Charging that the Democratic
pledge to protect the lives and property
of American citizens uliroud had been
ignored by the Mdminixtrntion, Charles
I'.. Hughes, Republican candidate for
the prexidetiey, yesterday wiko to
thouauiidt of persona here and received
mi tivntion. '
"Knur years ago," suid the candi
date, "wo were ui,sured in solemn terms
hattljgioustitujiimal right of Ameri
can to ei-fldsj Jh protection of their
country, no tnaften. where they miht
Ho, o long a they behaved themselves
jiroperly, wtmld lie upheld throughout
the, world. There wts no quibble about
the language used nt that time, vet
New Premier Denies That Con
stantjne I? In Sympathy
With Teutonic Allies
(Ansacistad PrssS by Ttdsrsl Wlrslsss.)
ATIIKNH, Kciitenilicr 22 The new
(Iivck iiemier, M. Nicholuis Kulixii'tTo- .
lidiiioH, yesterday issued n furinul state, i
incut denying that K i n CoiiHtantine is
iri (ieniiHn in his syiiiHtliies.
'The king is pro Creek only," says
the i-tiitonirnt, whieli adds that the
n (iroek eubinet "entertains only
feelings of the inoMt benevnlent lien
trnity towiu.l the ineiubers of the Kn-
teiitu l'ower,".
The interual' situation in (Ireece eon
tinues so.utii, with tin! revolution
Hifiiinst the tfi eminent, bused laruelv
..n
m,ii ,,n innuit? in enter IUM War OU
the sido of th( Allies,
growing more
Keports from the Uland of Crete,
yesterduy, announeed that the revolu
tion has reached there, and thut a
provisions! government hud Ix'en
estublibhed.
PRQ-GREEK ONLY
From PJioioaken During Great Offensive
since then ' we . have neon Americans
murdered and their property destroyed,
with nothing but windy protests from
the authorities in Washington. Our
commerce has been i nterruted, also,
and not a hint of real uctiun from the
capital.
'I therefore sny that in this ease.
as in othrs, the Democrats have failed I
to keep an explicit pledge made to the
people of the Tinted States."
Mr. Hughes spoke earlier in the day
to a large throng gathered to hear him
in i.ntuyette, Indiana. I( told his
nuinenre tnnt he hoped soon to see the
country imbued with a great, driving
patriotic force, which might furnish
the motive power for the progress he
hoped to see the nation make.
""" the rights of American
inroiiuiiout thf world protected," he
declared in outlining the policy of the
Heiuibliesn party.
AT OPEN REVOLT
King Will Not Heed People,
Must Decide On Other
Mbans, He Says
if
(Aocttd Prsss by Fedsrsl Wlrslsss.)
I.OMHIX Heptember 23 According
repurts ruachini here from Hal.ioiku
I la.M nielit, it is probnble that the revo-
l,itinn:ii y committee of the Cretans,
vhu have rebelled iipiinst King Con
Ktuntine nnd tbe present Oreek govern
inent. nnd set up u provisional govern
ment of their own, will- be sent to
Salonika.
Other despatches from Athens an
iii. tin. ed that former 1'iemier Venire
Kw llntly decliiiiHl to make any state
iii( nt i,f his plans laxt uil't.
AHked if he intended to ao to Halon-
'k" ,IJ pruvisionnl goverument
iwhioli is being formed there, M, Veni-
zelnN said:
"If the King failx to heed the voice
of the people e niiiBt decide upon
whut in best to do in those circum
I ktuiii i a. "
VENIZELOo ITS
Wounded Soldier
In Mexican Army
Boy 6 f Ten Years
Convalescing From Bullet Punc
ture Sustained In Battle With
Americans At Carrizal
1
' Ihs Assoctstsd Pr.)
3VAHKZ, Mexico, September 21.
nun u large red top as s plaything and
a yellow, stub-tniled dog, that spends
most of its time chasing Hies aa a play
mate, Kululio Rodriguez, a Carradia
soldier of the Canales brigade, is eot)'
vhlesciiig in a loeal hospital from
wounds suHtaintd in aetion. Kulalto,
ho i ten years, old, is perhaps ens of
the youngest of 'thp buy soldiers helre
ing to make up the fighting forces of
u.ivi..,. T-I .. - i , . i ,
i,c nuunuHu in too en
gagement with Americans at Carrizal
in June.
The youngster was .bending oyer tbe
body of his company commander, Lieut,
tvarista Martinet; when he was shot
through the body. But Eulalio insists
that, although his wound hurt, hi kept
on fighting until the Americans oad re
treated. .
The child was takon to the military
hospital in Chihuahua City, discharged
ns recovered, and ordered with his pri
guile to Juarez. On the troop train,
however, his wounds broke out afresh
and he was taken to the hospital here,
here he is said to be recovering lap
iillv. Kiich day he sits in the ana
hile and spins his top, given him by
nn American newspaper msn, while tbi)
dog, which "just adopted him," plays
ubont. ,
Ku la 1 1 o, although he can neither read1
nor write, seems rathei; precocious in
his patriotism, and in answer to ques
tions he said: ; ,
"I like pence better than war. ''And
when the fighting is over I'm geing
home w ith my father and go into- tbe
farming busiuess."
(Jen. Fraueisco Gonzales, rommtn
dant here, is proud of the boy soldier,
whoso home is near l'enjamo, Guana
juato, nnd . plans, when he has reeoy
ered, to detsil him as messenger at the
ciiuununduncia.
EARL FEVERSHAJWKILLEQ
. (Assoctatsd Press By PsdsrsI Wlrilssg.)
LONDON, September 21 Ueutea-ant-Colonel
Earl Feversham wa$ killed
in action today leading his regiment in
an oiiHlaught on tbe German trtaoket
ut the Quinine battlefrout.
TUR CO-TEUTONIC FORCES
OPERATING IN DOBRUDJA
DISTRICT ARE SHATTERED
Von Mackensen Suffers Reverse After Six
Days of Fighting Between Black Scavand
Danube River and Legions of Central Powers
lit Macedonia Are Exposed To Rear Attack
SLAVS HAMMER AT ROVEL
(Atsociated Prest By
PARIS, September 22-Field Marshal von Mackensen, hero of
.' the Tcntonic drive through Serbia and commanding the forces
of the Germanic allies in the Balkans, has met with one of the most
disastrous defeats of the war to datw,' according to despatches-from' ,
Petrograd and Bucharest, confirmed-in part by the reports from
Berlin ahd Sofia. , f ; ':. '
.Aftor six days ol terrific fighting on the,Dobrudja line,' stretch-
ing from the "Danube to the shore of the Black Sea, the Bulgars
ami liermans. with lhcir Turkish allies," have' been routed, and last's
night were reported pouring southward in'a d1ofderly retreat, turn- '
ing the fi.lagca throogh which thejr passed behind them,; .
This great battle;, which was announced hy Berlin arid Vienna
climax 6f the fampyign, which started soon after the entry
of Rumania into the war, niity prove to be one of the HirnineDoint8
of. J he war, for Ijy jthi' victory
s. ..-if e tnc) approaches to the Tear Qt the .Uerman-Buigar-Turcb Jine '. . ,: .:
in Bulgariaand SerblltiindiAger' th'. whole! "of HK "Te4onic': ;
"STRUGGLE Hi O0ME TO STANDSTILL'V 'v'
,' Yini&1tiiiilihi'jpooti Dobrudja fighting: the.6ernian ' - r;:
general staff merely says that "the struggle there .has come to a .
'fitandsti'l." ,--y '-x:;..;
The campaign of which the Dobrudja battle has proved the climax,
began last week wheh the 'retiring Russians and Rumanians took
up .n line of positions reaching across the district of Dobrudja,
from tin- Danube ; river to the:Black'Sea, a distance orapproKimately
thirty miles. TheiV right flank rested oh the river at a ' point some
distance to the south of . Chernavaza, and ran eastward by Nedjidji
and Murfatla to a point ;On the Black Sea coast, south of the Ru
rnauian iori of Constanzai ' ' .,''.?'
v.llerc the (iermans and Bulgarians, under the command of Field
Marsli.il on Mackensen, commander-in-chief of all the forces of
the Teutonic allies in the . Balkan theater of the war, attacked them.
The Teuton attacks necessarily were frontal assaults, for the flanks
of the Kntcnte armies were protected by the Danube, there a wide
and deep river, and the Black Sea. . ..,..,,. V
GERMAN COMMANDER CONCENTRATES STRENGTH
l-'ver Miice the invasion, of the Dobrudja district, the' German
.commander has been concentrating all his strength in this attack.
He tni.k the important towns of Turtukai and Ak Kadialir. The
I)oluii'lj,t district forms the Black Sea littoral of Rumania, and is
the section of territory lying east of the Danube after that river
turn-- north from Rulgaria and enters Rumanian land. The district
is about l.VS miles north and south, and averages about fifty miles
east and west.
More than a year ago Russia began laying double-track railway lines
from her hit; center's to Klshnelf. loiter these lines were extended to
Reni. a little town lying at the anex of the Dobrudia wedVe and iust
Ucross llic river Prflh from Galitz
r
-
lor mouths, preparing depots, Houble-tracking the road, laying out
sidings and sidetracks, and making other preparations for one of two
Jhings an attack upon Rumania or the utilization 'of .the Dobrudja
route for launching an attack upon the flank of the Austrian and German
armies guarding the Vienna-Belgrade-Constantinople railroad line,;Vith
the cutty of Rumania into the war the first of these alternatives gave
way id the second, and the route was open. But Russia apparently
was not quite ready, to strike, and von Mackensen, realizing the value
6f the Dobrudja, both from a military point of view and a political
One, struck first. .
RUSSIANS POUR IN TO RELIEVE RUMANIANS
The Rumanian armies had been sent by the directing staff of the En
tente Powers to hold back the Austrians in the Transylvanian territory
and ihey were accomplishing their work well when the Bulgar:Teutonic
bolt fell upon their southern frontier. They retreated, losing Turtukai
and the other towns as they fell back.
Then the Russian railroads' began to flood the district with Russians.
Russian transports rushed reinforcements from Odessa to Constanza,
and the Kntcnte line held fast. The Germans, meanwhile, fully realiz
ing the importance of the positions, also rushed reinforcements to the
scene and last week Berlin announced that the fighting in that region
had become severe. Later despatches told of the arrival of additional
reinforcements, for the Russians and Rumanians, and claimed slight
gains for the Bulgarians. Sofia also made similar claims. . Yesterday
the tenor of these reports changed, as well as those coming from Bucha
rest, which had been admitting from t,imc to time Rumanian reverses
of a minor nature.
VICTORY IS OF VAST IMPORTANCE TO ALLIES
The importance of the operations in this district can be gathered from
the reports which have come of late from Petrograd, announcing the
formation of a great new army to be used in eliminating Turkey and
(Continued ou l'age :t)
Federal Wireless)
(he Russians, and Iiimanians lay
- 4
Here Russian engineers were busy
11 '
