THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 22, 1916
.10 PAGES
YOL. XXVII., NO. 12G
ICKENSEN DRIVEN OUT IF THE
JIN PROVINCE
(By Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
The German, Bulgarian and Turkish troops under Field Marshal von
Mackensen have been defeated in the Rumanian provinces of Debrudja, ac
cording to the official announcement from Bucharest. It is declared that
the invaders have retired to the south and are burning villages in their
retreat.
The great battle, which was the climax of von Mackensen's swift cam
paign in the dobrudja district immediately after the declaration of war by
Rumania, began on September 15 and ended, says Rumanian headquarters,
cn the tenth.
With references to these operations, Berlin merely says that "fighting in
Dobrudja has come to .1 standstill."
Rumanians, Russians and Serbians are pitted against the invaders, strong
reinforcements having been hurried to Dobrudja when the operations under
the noted German field marshal threatened to overwhelm a section of Ruma
nia. A strong line to the north was hastily fortified and powerful forces
were thrown out to oppose the onslaughts of the central powers. That the
six days' battle has been a sanguinary one is indicated by the various offi
cial statements which told of the intensity of the fighting that has continued
without cessation.
With the September rains still impending operations on the western front
in France, interest in the world warfare has been transferred to the Russian-Rumanian
and Macedonian theaters where violent fighting is in progress-Probably
the most sanguinary encounters have taken place along the
12 mile battle line in the region of Lutzk, Volhynia, where the Russians at
tacked repeatedly in mass formation but only, according to both Berlin and
Vienna, to meet with repulse and heavy casualties. The battle is still raging
in the region of Korytnize and Sviniusky.
To the north along the Stokhod river the Germans assumed the offen
sive against the Russians, but everywhere were repulsed, according to Pet
rograd. On the other hand, attacks by the Russians against the Austro
Hungarians in the Narayuvka river region of Galicia were put down by the
defenders of the road to Lemberg. In the Carpathians both Berlin and Vi
enna concedes that the Teutonic line west of the Panther ridge and near
Brizia has been pushed back by the Russians.
Although Berlin and Vienna record the re-occupation of heights on both
sides of the Vulcan pass, Bucharest says that south of Petrozeny, the Ruma
nians have stopped their retirement and are fortifying their positions.
Stubborn fighting continues in Dobrudja, where the Rumanians and
Russians are holding their strongly fortified positions against the armies
of the central powers.
In Macedonia, on the extreme western wing, the entente forces have
pushed their way three miles northwest of Pisoderi, according to Paris.
Hard fighting for the Kaimakcalan plateau, on the Greek-Serbo border, north
west of Vodena, is in progress, but with neither side having been able to
secure an advance. Sofia says that near Fiorina counter attacks by the En
tente have been repulsed with heavy casualties and the capture of prisoners,
including Russians, and also machine gune.
Except for the repulse by the Italians of an Austrian attack south of
Villa Nova, on the Carso front, there have been only bombardments in this re
gion. Thursday on the front in France was without noteworthy incident.
A revolutionary provisional government has been set up on the island of
Crete, according to unofficial advices, which added that a committee of
revolutionists is to be sent to Saloniki. Former Premier Venizeios, while
declining to say whether he purposes going to Saloniki to head the movement,
reverted to his recent statement thet ' if the king will not hear the voice of
the people, we, ourselves, must devise what is best to do."
Offer Stubborn Resistance
SOFIA. Wednesday, Sept. 20 (via
I-ondon, Sept. 21). Stubborn resis
tance is being offered by the Ruman
ians and Russians to the attacks of the
Teutonic allies In the great battle now
in progress In the Rumanian province ,
.f Dobrudja. The war office announc- emy and made several counter attacks.
d today that so far the defense had I "Enemy aeroplanes dropped bombs
len maintained In its strongly forti- j on Constanza, where no one was in
f led position. The statement says: 1lirP(. -nd on Piatva Keamtu where
'Rumanian front On the Danube ! a child was injured."
nor artillery successfully bombarded' '
lie Turnsvenn station.
"The battle on the line of Maralui,
Ncmik, Arabadaji, Kokardja Cobadin
and Tuzla rontlnned yesterday with
tie greatest stubbornness on both
sides. The enemy maintained himself
In his stronsly fortified position.
"On the liluck Sea coast there was
calm."
Attacks Are Repulsed
l'.lTHAUKST, Sept. 21 (via London)
The buttle in Dobrudja between the
lianube and the Rlack sea continues
with intensity along the whole line.
ifficial announcement was made here
today that the Russians and Ruman
ians have repulsed the Germans and
linluarians in all their attacks, inflict
ing severe losses on them.
Today's official announcement says:
"On our northwestern front there
were small skirmishes in the Strein
MINING ENGINEERS
IN TUB Wl TD PHOENIX
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
GLOBE, Sept. 21. A fall meeting of
this American Institute of Mining En
gineers will.be held early in October at
St. Louis, Mo., according to members
who arrived here today for their an
Trial convention. The engineers held
two conferences today which were de
Voted to technical matters and inspect
ed the copper mines in this district.
Another session will be held here
tomorrow and Saturday they will go
1 M"t m,.h, v,nt:ie uiey win continue I a. laooraiory scale ana partly on a
their sessions. somewhat larger scale. The fact that
Possible means of developing the ' the Inspiration company has been able
flotation process to the greater benefit to design a commercially successful flo
f the country's mining interests were 1 tation plant must be attributed to the
taken up in today's sessions. policy of spending great sums of mon-
Coiiclusions reached by the delegates, ! ey for the purpose of investigating the
who include representatives of twenty j flotation process on a commercial
! me leading metal producing com- !
i.anies of the country, were to the ef
fect that the flotation process is now
in its infancy and that with the fur
ther discovery of new flotative agents
nnd generous expenditures a brilliant
future record could be obtained for this
Jrocess.
During a part of today the mining
t-xerts descended many hundred feet
into the mines of the Old Dominion
'oper Co. and later visited the re
duction works of this company. Dur
ing the evening technical sessions were
held on the subject of "Fine Grinding"
in which F. C. P.lickensderfer of the
letnit Copper Mining Co. .described
h comparative test of the Marathon,
Chilian, and llardinge Mills.
Tuday's flotation discussions were
particularly important to mining inter
ests because of the first public presen
tation of a report ' of experiments on
wveral miscellaneous wood oils which
seem adaptable to use in the flotation
j.rocess. A statement of some of the
values of these oils was presented by
It. C. Palmer, of Madison, Wis.; Glenn
L. Allen, of the Shattuck Arizona Cop-
I
valley. Our troops have halted their
retirement south of Petrozeny where
they are fortifying themselves. In
Dobrudja, the struggle continues with
obstinacy. Russo-Rumanian troops
rermlsert in SI Mntrnjnarv r i -i n n r. ..n
tho a-hole frr.r,t n n.t,.,.!,., ,.r
Situation Unchanged
LONDON, Sept. 21. "The general
situation is unchanged," says the of
ficial statement from British head
quarters in France issued tonight. En
emy bombing attacks near Flers failed.
A hostile kite balloon was brought
uown in names today. One of our
aeroplanes is missing."
The Germans launched heavy coun
ter attacks last night on British posi
tion south of the Ancre on the Somme
front the war office announced this
afternoon. New Zealand troops de
fending the attacked positions beat off
the Germans with severe losses to
them.
Despite the German assaults, which
were continuous, throughout the night,
the British front in this sector was
advanced. Prisoners were left in the
(Continued on Page Two)
per Co., and O. C. Ralston, of the U. S.
bureau of mines.
Another especially striking feature
of this discussion was a description by
Dr. Rudolf Gahl, representing Inspira
tion Consolidated Copper Co., of the
exhaustive research and experiment of
his company in an effort to develop the
flotation process. Said Dr. Gahl:
"The flotation process is In its in
fancy. In what direction future changes
may take place is perhaps indicated by
tests which have been made partly on
scale.
II GLOBE
Watchful Waiting Policy
In Anti-Yaqai Campaign
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Sept. 21. General P.
Elias Calles, commander In chief of
the de facto Mexican forces in Son
ora, has adopted a policy of "watch
ful waiting" in the conduct of the
campaign against the Yaqui Indians,
according to a message received here
today front Nogales. based on reports
brought there by arrivals from Guay
miii. Orders are said to have been Issued
to all military commanders that they
shall not engage the Indians when it
can be avoided. The reason is not
apparent, the arrivals said, as the
Yaquis were more widely scattered
Mayor Mitchel Issues.
WAR
STRENGTH
n ,
IN ARRESTING SOLDIER I
SERGEANT IS SLAIN I
EL PASO, Sept. 21. Sergeant
Wen Bierne, Twenty-third Unit- I
ed States infantry, was shot and I
killed 1 in a saloon here today.
Subsequently William Sands, a
state ranger, was placed under ar- j
arrest., Bierne, who was a provost I
guard, was said to have been at-
tempting to arrest an intoxicated j
soldier. Sergeant Bierne, who had j
only eighteen months to serve to
complete thirty years of service, j
and was perhaps the most popu- j
lar enlisted man in his regiment,
had gone into the saloon to re-
move some soldiers engaged in a
dispute with the ranger. Accord- I
ing to reports at police headquar- I
ters. he asked the ranger for in- i
formation, who answered with two I
shots.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
NEW LONDON, Conn.. Sept. 21.
Condifence in their ability to find a
solution of the border and other prob
lems affecting tne relations between
Mexico and the United States, char
acterized the attitude of the members
of the Mexican-American joint com
mission today, notwithstanding the
virtual certainly that no definite
agreement on any plan will be reach
ed th;s week.
General conditions in Mexico again
were discussed and the American
members submitted more reports
gathered by the state department on
conditions in Mexico. In a general
way the subject of withdrawing the
American troops was talked over, the
Mexicans expressing their opinion that
General Carranza's armv was capable
of coping with the situation.
That the renewed activity of Villa
'n Chihuahua probably would delay an
greement on some plan of border con
trol was taken by the Mexicans as a
matter of course. The Mexicans hope
to have before the conference tomor
row official reports from their gov
ernment which will ser' e as a basis
"or the argument that the attack on
Chihuahua is not a true indication
of the government's inability to main
ain peace along the frontier. Today
the Mexicans presented nothing more
than a brief message from Andres
Garcia, consul at LI Paso, asserting
that "I'll is tranquil in Chihuahua."
Albert r.mi, one of the Mexican
commissioners, went to New York
onipht on business connected with
the railroads of Mexico, of which he
is director-general. Without him the?
other two Mexican commissioners ex
pect to m.e"t the Americans tomorrow,
but tomorrow night Luis Cabrera,
head of the Mexican commission, ex
pects to go to New York, causing a
postponement of the conference until
Monday.
The Chihuahua Affair
WASHINGTON, Sept. 21. The most
detailed account vet received of the
fighting at Chihuahua City last Sat
urday when Villa celebrated the Mex
ican "Independence day" by a suc
cessful assault upon the Oarranza.
Tarrison. reached the war department
today from Brigadier General George
Bell, commanding the El Paso mili
tary district. It asserts that Villa
personally led the attacking forces;
thfit he took and held numerous im
portant buildings in tho city for sev
eral hours; there he was joined bv a
thousand or more men of the Car
rarza garrison, and retired, promis
ing to return soon nnd taking with
him a. large quantity of captured
arms, ammunition and artillery.
General Bell's dispatch does not
show the source of his information,
and many officials believe his ac
count of the incident was founded on
rumors reaching the border, as were
various stories which have been
transmitted by state department
ag'-nts. They were inclined to be
lieve for that reason that the full
truth of what took place is not vet
known. Reports so far received are
similar only in that they show a
fight did occur on September 16 and
that the Villa followers took the
Continued on Page Three)
than.-t onv time in the history of
car ,,r against tnem.
'f ;.e force of Colonel Jesus Jimenez
roiigtit two hindred Yaquis for twen
ty- four hours at Amolio, near Teco
rip, recently, and the final result of
tne tight had not been reported when
tne travelers left for the north. Gov
ernment lossess in killed and wound
ed were hc-t.vy, it was reported.
A band of Indian raiders were driv
en irom tne vicinity of Ladura when
citizens from that town followed them
into tne country nnd fought twenty
rour hours, it was reported. Two
Mexicans were killed and a number
wounueu. tne Indian loss was unknown.
CONFIDENT CI
Eli SOLUTION
OFBORDERISS
SECOND ONLTTO
GRID REVIEW
OF CIVIL WAR
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Sept. 21 The war
strength division review, which started
on its march at 8 o'clock this morning
did not see the last of its units returned
to the camp until a late hour tonight.
After its long detour through the
streets of El Paso, it required five
hours and thirty-two minutes for the
line to pass the reviewing stand at
Fort Bliss, in which sat Major-General
C. M. Clements, of the Pennsylvania
guard, in whose honor the review was
tendered, and Brigadier-General George
Bell, Jr., IT. S. A., commanding this
district.
After passing the stand, the men
were massed in close formation,
shoulder to shoulder and file against
file, forming a solid mass of human
fighting material 1.200 yards long and
440 yards deep, covering a space of
101 acres.
Brigadier-General C. G. Morton, U.
S. A., commanded the troops whose
progress, tedious and trying in the
warm weather, was unmarred by a sin
gle mishap.
Military men said, also, that a larger
number of troops were in line than at
any other time in the history of the
country, with the exception of the
grand review in Washngton at the
close of the civil waf, May 23 and 24,
1865.
Tanned by service on the border, the
brown-clad legions, cavalry, infantry,
field artillery and auxiliary troops,
marched in an unbroken column, nearly
20 miles long, and which took about
five hours to file past the stand in
which Major-General Charles M. Cle
ment, commanding the Pennsylvania
division, and Brigadier-General George
Bell, Jr., comamnding the El Paso mili
tary district, reviewed them.
Participating in the review were
troops from the regular army from
.Massachusetts, Michigan, Kentucky,
Ohio, South Carolina, Pennsylvania,
Rhode Island and New Mexico, in all
73ft officers and 25,941 men.
Eight thousand animals and 1,000
vehicles, including ambulances, gun
carriages and supply wagons helped
iiwue up me pageant.
Spectators, who thronged the streets,
remarked on the apparent warlike ef
ficiency of the procession. Smoothly
ana compactly, in files of four, came
the infantry, IS, 000 of them, their black
tnicKets of rifles being crowned by
the fluttering Stars and Strines.
A brigade of artillery, a reiriment
each of cavalry and engineers with
detachments from the signal and medi
cal corps, trom the quartermaster,
pack trains and sanitary departments
made up the rest of the column. Ap
parently not a hat cord or a gun was
missing.
By order of the mayor, this morning
was a municipal half holiday in El
Paso. Stores throughout the city were
decorated with flags and bunting, a?
were the homes along the line of march.
tne troops in review were command
ed by Brigadier-General Charles G.
Morton, U. S. A.
City schools were closed throughout
the day.
o
BILLION DOLLAR REVENUE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Sept. 21. Railrod finan
cial results of the fiscal vear ended
June so, 1916, made public today
through the Railway Age Gazette,
show that net revenues for the year
crossed tne billion mark for the first
time.
The net operating revenues for the
year were $l,176.S04,00l or $5,134 per
mile, as compared with $938,580,638 or
$4,K31 per mile, for 1013. The aver
age mileage represented in 1916 was
220,299 and in 191;!, 221,829. The in
crease is due largely to increased
efficiency, it is stated.
o
Is Charged With
Poisoning Five
Inmates of Home
'
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HARTFORD, Conn., Sept. 21. Mrs.
Amy E. Archer-Gilligan, charged with
poisoning five Inmates of her Home for
Elderly People at Windsor, was in
dicted for first degree murder on five
counts by the grand jury late today.
Benedict M. Holden, counsel for Mrs.
Gilligan, obtained a continuance of the
trial until the December term of court
Mrs. Gilligan pleaded not guilty and
was remanded to the county Jail with
out bonds.
Mrs. Gilligan was arrested lant M.nv
specifically charged with the murder of
F. R. Andrews of Cheshire, May 30,
nis noay nad been secretly ex
numed. bince that time four other
bodies have been exhumed and the
state alleges that evidence of a power
ful poison was found in all the bodies
All the deaths occurred at the Archer
nome.
Most of the inmates were admitted
10 tne nome, the state claims, after
contracts had been signed poi-viding
wr me care upon payment of $1,000.
Warning Against Strike Disorder
DIVISION
YUMA BANKER'S SON
IS SLAIN IN DUEL
(Special to The Republican) 1 one of the most prominent in Arizona
GILA BEND, Sept. 21. Eugene . the father of the dead man being one
Caruthers, aged 18, son of E. G. of the wealthiest cattlemen in the
Cu rut hers, president of the First Na- j state. Johrison's family lives in Chi
tional Bank of Yuma, and owner of , cago. The Gila Land & Cattle com
tbe largest mercantile store in Gila pany, whose interests he was looking
Bend, was shot and instantly killed I after, has its headquarters in Tucson.
today, in a pistol duel with Russell
Johnson, a prominent young cattle- Johnson was brought to Phoenix
man of this place. The shooting oc- last night by Southern Pacific Officer
curred in front of the Caruthers O'Neill.
store. It was feared that the many friends
Young Caruthers and Johnson, who and relatives of the dead vouth might
is the head of the Gila Land & Cat- j attempt to take the law into their
tie company, have been having trouble' own hands.
for some time. The dead man has 1 Caruthers' father was informed of
been looking after his father's cattle the tragedy by wire. He wired back
interests here, and the subject of ; that lie was on his wav. Other rela
fences has been gradually approach- tives of the boy wired" that Johnson
ing an inflammable point. j had better be removed from town, as
Johnson was sitting in an auto in 1 feeling was running high,
front of the Caruthers store this I According to Deputy O'Neill, eye
morning wnen young Caruthers came j witnesses claim Caruthers had his
out of the door. gUn jn his hand, and had called to
. Although there was at least one! Johnson that he was going to "shoot
eye-witness to the affray, no one out his heart." He started toward
knows what started the argument, j the machine in which Johnson was
Both men were seen to pull their 1 sitting, holding the gun upright, it is
guns, nut jonnson was tne quicker on
the draw and fired twice before
Caruthers could get into action. The
first shot did not take effect, but the
second penetrated the heart. Johnson
used a ZK automatic and Caruthers
was armed with a 32 automatic.
The inquest will be held tomorrow
before Dr. Richardson, the coroner.
Roth the men are well known over
(he state. The Caruthers family is
HUGHES SAYS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
RICHMOND, Ind.. Sept. 21. Instruc
ions said to have been given by
President Wilson to John Lind, his
icrsonal representative m Mexico,
luring Huerta's time, were cited in
ipeeches by Charles E. Hughes at
Port Wa;e today and here tonight,
n spport of Mr. Hughes' denial that
he administration sought to deal
.vith small states in the same spirit
is with large states.
"I have oniy recently received this
luthenlic information of the actual
nstructions that were given with re
spect to the government of Mexico,
such as Mexico had then," Mr.
"lughes said. "John Lind was au
horixed by the executive to state
his proposition to a minister of an-
Hher government. namely that.
4uerta will be put out if he does not
;et out. That it is the preference of
he president that it should be ac
complished by domestic, means, if
'lossible, but if it cannot be done by
lomestie means, other means ade
quate for Hie purpose will be resort
ed to.
"Thre is no basis for that In the
recognition of small states," Mr.
Hughes added. "There is no basis
or that in the recognition of the
overeignty of our neighbor. There
s no basis for that in a true and
'orrect American policy. We depart
ed from an American policy and left
ur citizens to suffer from the bar
:arity which resulted, and when all
;overnment was destroyed and an
irchy was supreme in Mexico. It is
1 deplorable recital."
In a dozen speeches today1, most of
-hem rear-platform addresses, of on
iy a few minutes, the republican, nom
nee for president, outlined his views
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Sept. 21. Prosecu
tion of the alleged blackmailers gang,
whose operations were uncovered by
trrests in Chicago and elsewhere, will
he followed with renewed vigor as the
result of the two days' conference of
ipecial agents, which concluded this
afternoon. All of the directing heads
-if the investigation left for their
homes tonight.
Three developments stand out as the
result of the conference. The con
ferees determinedupon a more co
ordinated prosecution, with Assistant
attorney General John C. Knox at New
York in. charge. They Cecided to
press first the case against those ac
cused of victimizing Mrs. Regina S.
Klipper in New York, and taking her
under duress to Montreal, and will
concentrate upon Frank Crocker as
the leading witness for the govern
ment. Crocker, the government Investigat
es said, has made a complete con
fession of his part in thei case of
Mrs. Klipper. Government agants are
carefully guarding information of his
whereabouts as the result of threats
made against him by his associates
because he turned informer. He will
WILSON ROUND
TOOUSTHUERTI
PROSECUTION OF BLACKMAILERS
TO BE PUSHED VIGOROUSLY
N REVIEW
alleged, with the safetv down and
ready to snoot. Johnsons gun was
in a pocket on the front door of his
machine, but he managed to get it
out and shoot before Caruthers could
pull the trigger.
Sheriff Adams, Deputy Sheriff
Sears and County Attorney Gandy
went to Giia Bend last night by auto,
but arrived after O'Neill and Johnson
had left for Phoenix.
ISLEUFGRETE
P
PARIS. Sept. 21. A revolution
in the Greek island of Crete is
reported in a Havas dispatch from
Athens. The revolution is said to
have proclaimed a provisionl gov
ernment. Republican A. P. Leased Wiri
ATHENS, Sept 20 (via London, Sept.
21) Elipthcrious Venizeios, the formei
premier and Cretan statesman, was
asked today as to the truth underlying
the repeated reports that he is going
to Saloniki to put himself at the head
of a temporary revolutionary govern
ment and, in reply, he declared to the
Associated Press:
"I cannot answer now. I must wait
a brief time yet and see what the gov-
j f rnment proposes to do before decid
ing on tho course it will be best to
adopt in the event that Greece does not
enter the war.
"As I said on August 27, if the king
will not hear the voice of the people
we must ourselves devise what is best
to do. We do not know what that will
be but a long continuation of the pres
ent situation would be intolerable. Al
ready we have suffered all the agonies
of a disastrous war while remaining
neutral.
"We have had ten months of mobili
zation with all the consequent hard
ships to the families of the men, while
both Balkan wars only included thir
teen months, with greater funds avail
able for the relief of families of the
soldiers. Our boundaries have been in
vaded; towns, crops and farms have
been destroyed, and all horrors enacted.
We have had all the financial burdens
of war and the cost of maintaining use
less mobilization. The morale o the
(Continued on Page Two)
tell his story in the federal court at
New York when the Klipper case is
brought up next month.
REVOLUTION IS
UN IN GREEK
President' To Confer Today
On the Political Situation
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONG BRANCH, N. J., Sept. 21.
Political conditions in Michigan and
neighboring states will be the subject
of a conference here tomorrow between
President Wilson and Assistant Sec
retary Sweet of the department of
commerce, democratic nominee for
governor in Michigan. At Mr. Sweet's
request the president will see him at
3 o'clock tomorrow afternoon. The
conference will be the first of a series
the president will hold here with polit
ical leaders from different states.
Mr. Wilson spent part of his time
today reading letters from democratic
leaders giving information on the lo
LVEflr POWER
OF HIS OFFICE
WILL BE USED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KEW YORK, Sept. 21 Labor lead
ers were given formal warning by
Mayor Mitchel tonight that he would
employ the "full civil and military
powers'' conferred upon him by law to
prevent disorders if the threatened
general strike of trades unionists is
called tomorrow to aid the street car
employes who quit their places Sep
tember 6.
The mayor's communication was ad
dressed tT Hugh Frayne, chairman of
the conference committee of labor lead
ers, in a final effort to reach a peace
able settlement. The mayor made it
plain that for the union officials "to
call these strikes will be to assume
full responsibility for all that may
follow."
"The mayor, representmg the civil
forces of government in this city," the
letter declared, "feels it incumbent up
on him to say to you now, before any
further rash step is taken, that these
duties (to enforce law and maintain
order) the city government will dis
charge to the full, employing, if need
be, its entire resources to that end.
Disorder, assaults and crimes of vi
olence, including injury to innocent
citizens, such as those of Tuesday and
eanesaay, will be suppressed with a
strong hand and punished with all the
vigor at the command of the govern
ment."
The communication which was con
curred in by Oscar S. Starus, chairman
of the public service commission, re
viewed at length the causes which led
to the present crisis. It stated that the
Interborough Rapid Transit company,
which operates the subwav and ele
vated lines, violated a verbal agree
ment with the labor leaders by refus
ing to arbitrate .issues arising subse
quent to the making of the agreement.
It stated on the other hand that the
employes of the New York Railways
company and the other surface lines
affected by the strike "were guilty of
a breach" of contracts they had made
with their employers which ended a
tie-up on the "surface roads in July.
The conference was attended by
Mayor Mitchel, a citizens' committee
and the labor leaders. It ended in a
deadlock. The mayor later declared
there was "no solution in sight," while
members ef the citizens' committee de
scribed the situation as "hopeless,"
adding that "it would appear that both
sides would have to fight it out."
Ernest Bohm, secretary of the Cen
tral Federated Union later asserted
that plans were completed for a sym
pathetic strike of 700,000 workers in
other trades, and that the "walk out"
might begin tomorrow.
Meanwhile, the state bureau of med
iation and arbitration had sent notices
to the leaders of the striking carmen
and the heads of the transit companies
directing them to appear before the
board Monday when hearings for tho
purpose of finding a way out of tho
deadlock would be started.
Samuel Gompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor, who
'attended the mayor's conference, de
clared that he was with the strikers
to the last ditch in their fight for the
right to organize."
According to an announcement late
tonight bv union officials the threat
ened general strike order will include
cooks and kitchen help, waiters ana
bell boys. Virtually every large hotel
and restaurant in New York, it was
said, would be affected.
0
SYRACUSE CHAPTER WINS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CINCINNATI. Sept. 21. Syraeuss
chapter, which had the affirmative side
of the debate on the subject, "Re
solwd. That the Closing of Accounts
Over Thirty Days by Acceptance Is an
Improvement over the Open Book Ac
count " was declared the winner over
the Chattanooga chapter at the annual
convention of the American Institute
of Banking here today.
The debate was a part of the pro
gram of the convention and held the
attention of 600 delegates throughout.
o
POSSE SEEKS GIRLS' ASSAILANT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BEMID.II, Minn., Sept. 21. Sheriff
Charles Gunderson, of Itasca county,
with a posse of more than 100 armed
men tonight is searching the woods in
the vicinity of Round Lake school,
Itasca county, for an unknown man
who Wednesday assaulted and shot
Olga Dahl, 19 years old. teacher of tho
district school, after tying her to a tree
near the school building.
cal political candidates in every doubt
ful state. This information will bo
used by Mr. Wilson in planning his
campaign. He is learning just, what
subjects need to be discussed most and
is gathering information on the rela
tive strength of republicans and dem
ocrats in different parts of tho
country.
The president has outlined what he
will say to the delegation of business
men who will call on him at Shadow
Lawn Saturday afternoon. According
to his political lieutenants, it will be
one of the most important speeches he
will make in the campaign. He will
discuss all phases of the administra
tion's treatment of business.
