A
EEhlU
'tiitJt
t -u. r 31 a
B auf irf .
-jiasprx
Vol. 5W.
JASVB8, INDIANA. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1916.,
No. 3
Kansas Journalist Calls
Prohibition a Farce
'Explains Jokers in Statis
tics Sent Out by
"Drys"
BOSTON GRAND OPERÄ COPIPAY IN CENTENNIAL FESTIVAL
THE WAYS OF JAPAN.
Los Angeles Times)
Prohibition in Kansas is a farce,
one that is making the state a laugh
ing stock of the nation, particularly
because of the figures and data given
out by some of the prohibitionists,
according to Jay E. House, for many
years past and now a member of the
staff of one of the large Kansas daily
papers espousing the cause of pro
hibition, who with his wife is touring
California, and is registered at the
Alexandria from Topeka.
An editorial in a local evening
paper anent the wonderful progress
of Kansas under its thirty-two years
of prohibition government caused
House to grow rather heated under
the collar because of the erroneous
statements it contained.
"In eighty-seven of the 105 counties
. of Kansas there are no insane," says
I? the editorial. i
; "As rapidly as men and. women
Otösä .thcit' iminds -they are Removed
from their homes and placed in the
state hospitals, of which we have
three at the present time," states :
House. "In order t j accommodate the
iapiÜly-increasing insane population
the largest asylum m Kansas is oeing
erected at Lamed, and with its com
pletion the state will be able to take
care ot more tnan ö.uuu patients.
This much for that assertion.
, ' "Thirty county poorhouses are
, - without a single tenant," continues
the editorial.
"Why?" questions House. He an-
. swers his question by stating that in
Kansas the population is very thinly
spread through many of the counties,
particularly those in the western part,
and it is seldom that any but hardy
' persons go there to dwell, and those
who are inefficient cannot remain. In
addition to that the state has a sort
" of a pension for its poor. Instead of
vianii I n i.rii-iri ifi imiiiiii.v iiiiiir iii inn.
1 .they receive ftums running from $12
r'-. OK wvinU -frty fVini'r- lief oninfp.'
"Last winter Topeka alone cared for
700 paupers," said House. "But only
. about ten per cent, of them were in,
the Doorhouse. The remainder were
taken care of by families who received
the money for board."
1 1
LATEST PHOTOGRAPH 7 S. 5. .5.
N OF PRESENT WILSON
G. 0. P. Candidate Is Mocked
by Record of His Own
Party in Congress.
LAWS ENACTED ARE FOR ALL
On Its Achievements Administration
Invites Judgment as to Whether
ItrWork Is Sectional in Its
Scope and Purpose.
(Photos of Boston Grandopera ArtistsTop Row, left to right;. Phyllis Peralta, Giovanni Zenatello, Thom
as Chalmers, Riccardo Martin, Dorothy Foüi. Center row, left to right: Mabel Riegelman Tamaki Miura,
Maria Gay, Luisa Viliani. Lower row, Jeff--to right: Elvira Leveroni, Giorgio Puliti, Max Rabmoff, director,
i- .:Paclo .Ananlan, Fely Clement.)
With
"a ft. ,
big uompany
Ballet and Orchestra at Indianapolis, Oct. 1345.
Ytu Ar Never Sur f Privacy, Cvxa
While Taking a Bath.
As one steps before the
open doors of the reception rooi
or into the court or the kitchen, 1
the case may be, the host aj-
proaches and greets with a low W ,
followed hj the hostess and usual' j
one or more of the maids, w'...i,
kneeling, bend to the floor. The
salutations are returned, a word t
exchanged perhaps about the room
or the meal that is to be prepare. -and
the guest seats himself on the
low porch or platform that sur
rrmnrk the pntTancos and rcinovwj
W U ij w w w - '
!his shoes or sandals, leaving them
on the ground. If one wears the
Japanese cloth shoe and straw san
dal, as I did some of the time, il
feet are always washed in a wooden
basin of water brought by a maM.
who comes clattering around t!:
outside of the house on wooden
clogs to bring it and sets it dov. u
! before one on the ground. A littln
towel is iJrought, too, unless one, iu
usual, has 1" is most useful of arti
cles about his person.
Then the guest steps in, in stock
ing feet or barefoot, and, preced-i
by a servant, passes through t.
open rooms, often between a flouK
line of all the people, of the hou .
who are bowing to the floor. I'
enters the room allotted to him n:. i
there seats himself cross legged i
a cushion on the matted floor 1 -
fore a tiny charcoal fire in a brazi--r
ind rests at least pretends to rt
i he is a foreigner until disregard
for ceremony gets the betfer 01 Lit.
and he adopts an easier position.
Presently comc3 a demure or smil
ing little maid, with rosy cheeks am
fancifully colored silk kixnono, yk
kneels outside and slide open t!;'
paper door, enters, kneels tn
closes it, brings tea V :nr3 to th.-
center of the room and, icneeün-, ,
pours out a wee cup of ten to th
guest or- each o the: guestBi-
Charlos E. Hughes has raised the
cry of sectionalism, complaining to his
-Hr.,,..-.....- mwlintutaC! hopnilP thO llll
'The calling of a grand jury with A . ,ffrtrt niirmonhins in
relation, to criminal cases ia wexuei,y - T1 , i,0T1 finori
llie XlUUSe UUU OCUttLC "luv, ijy-i
if
rare," asserts the editorial.
JuV' years, but not because there have been
2& no crimes committed, by any means.
"I don't believe the grand jury has J
been in session once in the twelve . onsuy ouuu.au
years I have lived in Topeka," replies j "During the last year of Republican
House, "and here again you have a j control there was not a committee
subversion of facts. Instead of filing ! chairmanship from the South," replies
a charge after grand jury investiga- j Congressman James B. Aswell in his
uon, me county atcorney nas iuu
authority to file all charges. Calling
the grand jury is entirely optional
with the district judge and it is a
state policy to do away with the ex
pense attached to the machinery nec
essary for a grand jury investigation.
There are counties where such a jury
has not been impanelled in forty
The great musical festival of the In
diana centennial year is to be given by
the Boston Grand Opera Co. in con
nection with the two weeks' statehood
jubilee that is to he held in Indiana
polis, beginning Oct. 2. The Boston
company, with twenty or more of the
world's great singing stars, a chorus
and" ballet of 100 and an orchestra of
GO, together with full equipment of cos
tumes and scenery, is to give three
operas "Andrea Chenier" Giordano's
opera 'of the French revolution; Mas-
cagni's brilliant Japanese opera, "Iris,"
and "Faust," with the wonderful Wal
purgis night ballet. On Oct. 15, the
grand finale of all the Hoosier centen
nial celebrations, close when the entire
Boston Co. and the combined singing
societies of Indianapolis, making a
chorus of 800 voices, will sing Verdi's
oratorio, "Requiem" at the state col
liseum, giving the "Requiem" on the
greatest scale that has ever marked it
in America, rne tnree operas win ub uune, uci i.wv-i . . -
given in very sumptuous manner, the I floor and miters out, opening ,ü.i.i
closing th door, as before. Li ti.-
guest is nit honored one some a-fa-tv.
such a- henn-jelly or calts r
raw d rolled in pink r !
irreen iv:!or. is brought witL th
complete ballet Russe appearing m
each. In "Iris" the title role 111 be
taken by Tamaki Miura, the celebrated
Japanese prima donna. The operas are
to be given Oct. 13 and 14? with mati
nee, at Murat theater. All the artists
in the photograph will be under the di
rection of the Centennial Celebration
Committee, which has headquarters at
40 South Pennsylvania street.
r
"There is as much, if not more,
drinking in Kansas today than ever
before. The prohibition law makes it
g necessary to register all shipments of
liquor into the state by common car-
iiTi. rier. In June of this year, 90,000
quarts of liquors were registered as
imported Into Topeka, or two quarts
4 for every man and child in the place.
This does not include the liquor that
is brought in by automobile, in suit
cases ana by hundreds ot Dooueggers,
"Under practically four-fifths of the
automobile seats in Kansas you can
find booze. It is the basis for socia
bility. You are not invited to the
home of a friend for a dinner, but
rather to enjoy a drink. I have seen
great beer busts at which senators,
congressmen, bankers and the leaders
in business and professions have been
ths leaders in the drinking.
"And ail of this despite the strin
gent prohibition law, passed thirty- I beneficial
two years ago, wnicn nas ueen can Congress.
bolstered ana outtressea witn amena
ments and supports every year since,
until prohibition has become a fetish,
a sort of blind worship. "Whenever a
man dares openly to speak against it,
he is branded as a collusionist with
speech' reported in the Congressional
Record. "Was that nationalism or
blind, Ignorant ; partisanship?" he
asks.
"Let the people decide,'!, he suggests,
"whetlier the-following great measures
enacted by this so-called South-controlled
Congress are sectional or na
tional :
"The Underwood -Tariff 'Law, just
to the cousiNher4as agairfst 'tl& special
privileged class, followed by a non
partisan tariff commission removing
the tariff question from politics.
"The Income Tax Law, causing the
rich.to pay their just proportion of the
expenses of the Government.
"The Rural Credits Law, the first
legislation solely for the. farmers.
CENTENNIAL JUBILEE
COVERS TWO WEEKS
Indianapolis Has $100,000
Fund to Entertain All
Hoosiers Oct. 2-15.
While practically every county in
the state is in some form celebrating
Tim Pstnhlishmnnt of rural routes. tüe centennial o Indiana statehood.
the extension of the parcel post, and the culminating and most rcantic
better mall service for our rural popu- celebration ot the year is to be held
lation ln Indianapolis, covering two lull
The Good Roads Law for all sec- weeks beginning Oct. 2 The observ
tlons and for all our people. is tne S"t88t cm0 enterprise
"Farm extension laws. Including the capita! ctty has ever undertaken,
cr T, lrf mi nfl orttnn and it is to be a period o lavish en-
standards, regulating cotton futures, tertainmen t of the higher class to
and so forth.
which all the people of the state are
"Numerous just labor laws, the most nvlted. It is, in fact, to be a great
neflcial tn a century by the Amerl- vic and patnot.c demonstration . on
ing drawn upon to organize a proces
sional pageant for one day. Practical
ly all the brass bands of the state
will go to Indianapolis for some of the
parades and will b massed into im
mense concerts. The Boston Grand
Opera company ha? been engaged to
give three operas at the Murat, and
it, with the massM choral societies
of Indianapolis will give the grand
finale of the celebration in a concert
at the state fair coliseum on Oct. 15.
Eighty per cent of the people, of
Indianapolis are Hoosiers who for
merly lived out in the state and they
are preparing to keep "open house"
to their kith and kin from "back
home" while the centennial festival
is in progress. The whole city is
astir in preparation for the mighty
demonstration, which will be the
greatest outburst of Hoosier patriot
ism the state has ever known.
'Tho rb Hrl T.nhnr Lnw for the chli
dren of the whole country and for people will attend.
,,.., tival o pageantry.
"The Federal Reserve Act. giving an
elastic currency and preventing finan
the part of all the Hoosiers and it is
estimated that one million or more
It is to be a fes-
parades, music
Olympic games, motor parades, fam
ily reunions and oratory with immense
tlie'dTstn'ars and brewers. The state- Uu pftnies-the greatest act over arrays of attractions and entertain-
mAnfc T have mzirle are a ecnuinc and .,1 i hicMrv nf mir Rnvorn- ments for every daj.
. . . UUCOUl
Weariy a score OL cniiiimimes mauc
up of the most active civic workers
of Indianapolis have the details of the
celebration wll in hand, the whole
uiijJtaacv.1 Yiv; ui unaiii? o uai 4 ninnf
and will reap me noining xuc censure
at home. It is actually baleful to the
interests of the state to have such
sillS'V nonsefisicSl reportr civcula 0 . as
that which appeared here scvoriü Jays
ago.-" -: " !
The ahovi ? is coble J frOTi a rcmjl hsue of
"Conservation acts for the people as
"against special interests.
"Anti-trust laws and arbitration
laws, preventing special-Interest control.
"Shipping act for open markets for
the l.es Angles Txnusa J pidH'sheti -hei-K:oY products a ml commercial master
tY the Indiana hrev'irs 'A siaa'tlhjt. r'.. : .1 of the seas".
Db-Nbt Triflr '
With a Cola I
T crnoft advice for men and women. It ;
maf Wviul in the case of a child. Long keeping us out of the Euro
poiencna pravcu u - ; pean vva r while maintaining peace with
;n!T better for colds in children tnan ,
ing ucwi iw i5 ' honor to e American flag.
Tlpfciarl ftin ! "Mr. Sue ker. for the sake of the
I "Federal -Trade Commission Act,
"protecting the individual as against
the vested interests.
"The Seamen's Law for the work
men, and public safety.
"Legislation supporting the Fresi-
force of committees being headed by
former Mayor Charles A. Bookwalter
as chairman.
The business associations and In
dividuals have contributed nearly
$100,000 to the guarantee fund with
which to stage the huge affair. River
side park, the largest and most beau
tiful civic spot in Indiana, is to be the
scene of the chief pageant which will
be given on six afternoons. The state
fair grounds will be used for several
events as it is the only place near the
Hoosier capital with acreage large
enough to take care of both crowds
40,000 PUPILS IN
BIG CENTENNIAL JUBILEE
Educational day in the centenary
celebration at the Hoosier capital. is
to be brimful of interest for the boys
and girls of the state for the plans of
the educational committee, of which
J. G. Collicott. superintendent of the
public schools of Indianapolis, is
chairman, includes much that will be
nrofitable and entertaining.
The educational celebration will be
held at the state fair grounds and the
invitation io participate extends to
all the schoo! and colleges of Hoosier-
dom. the irtr being Friday, Oct. 13.
It is exnen-d th'u 30,000 to 40,000
scbcsl children s.'.H take part.
HOfdP. G? R FÄ1AÖE
in Indiana is on the schedule of the
bis: centennial celebration at Indi-
anapolis for Oct. 12, when it is ex
pected that 50,000 motor cars will be
in parades over thehistoric highway
of the state, gc to ttie Hoosier cap
ital, where they will concentrate in
one enormous parade through the city
to the state fair grounds where the
good roads meeting will be held.
Preparations for the monster motor
enr demonstrate!! have been under
way for two months, the motor clubs
and good roads organizations through
out the state being active in the or
ganization work. The plan is to star
the parades over the important stacr
highways and, as they move from
town to town on their way to Indian
apolis, to gather in delegations, th"
length of each parade increasing as
it moves through the s'tte. One di
vision will start at Terre Haute, mo
ing cast over the old National road
gathering up delegations at Brazil
Greencastls and other tcvns alons
the route. Another division will start
at Richmond, moving west over the
National road. Divisions will also
travel over the Dixie highway, the
ocean-to-ocean highway, and numin
ous other-, important roads. 4he divi
sions to concentrate at Indianapolis
about noon, where they will form inlo
one parade that ovill move througl
the city out MeKkTirm street.
Owners of the motor cars are asked
to use flags, pennants ml hunting in
. ON LÜ.E SCALE
giving their cars p!ajborae decoration
Many brass band; will -Ire in the di
visions The who'e demonstration is
to be a great outburst or Ood4roads
sentiment vhi?h a hounds in every, "Wake up, I sa'!
section of the stnte. Mo'or owners
livine seventv miles or more from In t
dianapolis should b at the starting
i point of their division 4iy S a. m. on
Oct. 12. These, starting points can
Moves Ovar Ststs Highways to
Indianapolis Git, 6 For
Good Roads Bay.
The most gigantic parade held in
tea. tiier. the ftest steps ou't :
the por. it t. vtiüht and as he dni .-i
his face 1. 1- look? at the 'little cul
ture pirh u or olf to the distant
valley or i'"---t or mountain or sea.
Ivetun!i? to his room, he ia
most of ' '!nc nione until the
coming of nienl or, if it chances
to be nftf-fui or evening until
the aunuu.. . ciucnt corner that "ihn
bath is rea' ;." One i? iicut entne-
iy alone. Acre?? to the r-.-m is 4-
ways free on t'ccral sides, mid hr. t
visitor or servaut may erui' in :
any time. One 1. orm uzod
this and le;;rr. to like u in u ;
ways. There is nnthm hidden. i
makes life siiplt and in fonualii
more natural. We Cpund it a d;
advantage sometimes when we I
too many visitors whose curie . t?
got the better of them, but we 1 '
ways took it in good part, ündir it
amusing rather than annoying.
Robert Van Meek Anderson ii
popular Science Month.
Caught.
In Fniladelphia they tell t ory
of a man whose wife had arrau
tn "authors evening, and persu.. vi
ed her reluctant husband to remain
at home and help her recehe i.o
fifty guests who were asked to parr
ticipate in this intellectual feast.
The first author was dull enough,
but the second was worse. More
over, the rooms were intolerable
warm. So, on pretense of letting
in some cool air, the unfortunate
host escaped to the hall, where hö
found a servant comfortaV V'eep
on the settee.
aW&ke up!" sierrL. o .-.aaded
the Philadelphian in 't iu.anva ear.
j . must hat
been listening pi he i.syhoür-r-
Xturpers m agpu
Nemri Tnrougn.
Ä Btrahirer cteretf n church Ik
be learned by inquiry alrages. of fche middle of the sermon and sett-
motor club officials, road sup-.-rmtend- ea himself in the back pew. After
ents and township trustees i?i ever awlJile he be-an to (idcet. Leaning
county, to whom details of the parage x f , ' , 4 , ,
plans have been sent by the Historical evMentlv an 0y
Highway Committee and by the Hoo- ' rcgatJon he
sler Motor club ot inuianapons.
a n ftiVirifnfo nrngrnm has been ar-
nil Ciuuui "i- f - "o
ranged for the good roaas meeting, o
which will include speauers or na
fionnl fame and concerts by the
massed bands. The day will be one
"How lon has bo'1'
jrih-
theN outstanding features of .two
la! "Thirty or fprty ' -tie
i 1 old man iMvrgfed
of J t exactiv." '
'11 stay t!inn."
and attractions. Murat theater will
T At K , t:i-n ' U1. lUL vu X also be utilized, while the Indiana
CoUßh Remedy -seeks and In the name of common de- s0 De monum;nt aild its surround.
r: r . ö-. .t.. y. Mr. ex-Justice Hughes speci- ?om of
Tl 2 A 9 A IIMT n F Tl '1 T J T T I 1 1 .1 fil l .1 1V11VJ r . lllir PITI M N 111 IM' Llir VXTZ 11LC1 UlliU V 1 IltT I- LIV UUt UUW , -
iimiavuiucnu-; T " fv and name the sect onal measures in . . r 7 , weeks'. centennial cmeDrauon at ma:- t Per. " C fir
ever disaopoints thsm. it conunns hu -- - n9e a very elaborate scneme oe aowmowu tne nistory 01 cne .auiomouue ami luc 1 V, V , -
oÄt narcotic aud may be given the above list and mention .se he decoI.;tIons. rd Inj ayerjield napoll flW-EvPnbo.h - U--
with implicit commence. , , v .jL tiui. onati25 ol Indiana aje he-
twl tho
' nri
1
