British Again Striking Hard on Somme Front
HARRISBURG Sfillik TELEGRAPH
T VVY \r 10 n BY CARRIERS CENTS A WEEK.
LA AAV 1\ O. SIXGUE COPIES 2 CENTS.
STREET CABARET
* IS CLIMAX TO BIG
FASHION EXHIBIT
All Harrisburg Invited to Dance
on Roped Off Section of
Market Square
FANTASTIC PARADE
Spectacular Ending to Great
est Merchandising Event
in City's History
With the exception of a few minor
details, plans have been completed for
the grand finale of Harrisburg's first
merchants' uniform Fall opening cele
bration.
That's to be the street cabaret, fan
tastic parade and great open-air dance
to-night in Market Square.
The curtain fell 'way late last night
on the second act of the Fall show,
and when all Harrisburg and its
friends from out of town go to bed
to-night, they'll be a mighty happy,
if a trifle weary, lot. Harrisburg
merchants, aided by the Chamber of
Commerce, will have staged and pro
duced a show that will have been well
worth while seeing.
If yesterday was an anxious day fop
the merchants who had entered the
window-dressing contest, it was surely
a busy one for the board of judges
who had toured the city inspecting the
decorations. And it's safe to say that
some of the contestants, at least, are
just a wee bit happier than some
others. Here are the fortunate
who were judged to have produced
the best window displays:
Prizewinners •
Class A—Dives, Pomeroy and Stew
art, first; Kaufman Underselling
Stores, second; Bowman and Com
pany, honorable mention.
Class B William Strouse, New
[Continued on Page 13]
Denounces Practice of
"Liveried Chauffers Taking
Wristwatch Boys Home"
Chicago, Sept. 22. Criticism by
the Board of Education of the prac
tice of children driving to and from
school in automobiles was widely dis
# cussed to-day. The subject came be
fore the board yesterday during a de
bate on a motion to instruct the sup
intendent of schools to investigate the
large number of petty thefts which
have occurred at various public
schools recently.
Jacob M. Loeb. president of the
board, was especially severe in his
criticism of conditions at Hyde Park
High, one of the most popular high
schools in South Side.
"You should see it on a rainy day,"
said Mr. Loeb. "At closing time the
automobiles are lined lip there as if it
were a fashionable reception, with liv
eried chauffeurs to take the wrist
watch boys home.
"The pupils of that school think of
society life only. They live for their
automobiles, their silk stockings, their
parties and balls, for dancing and
pleasure."
"What would be your remedy for
those conditions?" asked Edward J.
Piggott, member of the board.
"I would like to educate the par
ents," replied Mr. Loeb.
PITTSBURGH BREAD ADVANCES
Pittsburgh, Pa., Sept. 22. The
price of bread is being advanced in
Pittsburgh. According to F. P. Wil
harm, secretary of the Western Penn
sylvania Association of Master Bakers,
the recommendations of the National
association have been seconded by the
local organization and individual bak
ers are already raising the price to ten
cents a loaf. He said the Sherman
antitrust law prevents the association
from regulating the price of bread,
but does not prevent it from recom
mending the increase.
THE WEATHER
for Harrlaburß anil vicinity! Gen
erally cloudy to-night aiul Satur
day; possibly occasional showers;
somewhat lower temperature Sat
urday.
For Enstern Pennsylnnlai Overcast
weather to-night and Saturday;
possibly showers; somewhat
lower temperature Saturday;
gentle to moderate winds.
River
'The Susquehanna river and Its
branches will probably fall slow
ly or remain nearly stationary. A
atage ot about 3.4 feet is indicat
ed for Harrlsburs Saturday morn
ing.
General Conditions
Pressure has diminished over
nearly all the territory represent
ed on the map during the lust
twenty-four hours. The disturb
ance from Western f'nnadn has
continued to move southeastwan
with some Increase In intensity
and now affects the greater part
of the country east of the Mis
souri river, with Ita center over
V 'Wisconsin. It has caused local
V rains In the Ohio, Middle and
Upper Mississippi valleys, the
l.nke Region, Upper Susqaehanna
and Upper St. I.awrence valley*,
elsewhere fair weather has pre
vailed, except In Southern
Florida, Northern California ana
In Manitoba, where ahowera have
-fallen.
Tempernturea have risen 2 to 13 de
grees In the L'pper Ohio Valley
and East Tennessee and In the
Middle South Atlantic.
Temperature; 8 a. m., SB.
Sum Rises, 5i52 a. m.| seta, flrtM
p. m.
Moon; New moon, September 27,
2;54 a. m.
River Stage; 3.4 feet above lew
water mark.
Vesterday'a Weather
Higbeat temperature, 73.
I.owest temperature, 47.
Mean temperature, OS.
Normal temperature, 64.
IMPRESSIVE SCENE FROM CONSECRATI
- ■ ■ - - ■ - - - • -..^
The renter figure in the above picture is that of Archbishop Prendergast who with his guard of honor is leading the procession. At the right,
with hands humbly clasped, is Bishop Philip R. McDevitt, whose consecration tok place yesterday. The pro-cession Is enroute to the Cathedral of
St. Peter and St. Paul where the ceremonies were held.
G. 0. P. LEADS
DEMOCRATS IN
COUNTY BY 7,000
Assessors' Totals Computed For
70 Districts Show 10,126
to 3,279 •
Dauphin county, outside of the city,
can muster little more than 30 per
cent, as many Democrats as Repub
licans.
Assessors' returns from the seventy
districts of the county just totaled by
the County Commissioners' clerks show
the following:
Republicans 10,126
Democrats 3,2 79
Washington 603
Socialist 310
Nonpartisan 4,569
Prohibition 62
Independent
Keystone 3
No comparison with the assessors'
returns of four years ago—the last
presidential campaign—is available, as
the enrollment act was not in force at
the time and the commissioners' cler
ical staff had no way of figuring on
the party affiliations at the time.
Just what Dauphin county's whole
Republican enrollment will total can
not be figured out. either, with any
degree of accuracy, as there is an
other registration day—October 7
yet to be considered in the city's
count.
Significant among the figures, in the
opinion of political leaders, is the re
markably small showing of Washing
ton party men, although it is figured
that this will be offset to some extent
by the unusually large number of non
partisan enrollments.
Judge Advises Man to Buy
Booze From Wife; She'll
Earn Enough to Bury Him
Wilmington, Del., Sept. 22. When
John P. Reardon, a contractor, was
arraigned in city court and fined $lO
for violating the traffic law and an
additional S2O for contempt of court,
Jud.ge Churchman reminded the con
tractor that he is a bankrupt, with
a wife and six children to support,
and had attributed his troubles to
drink. The court said:
"Before it is too late, you should
change your habits. Don't drink at
all. Leave it alone. But if you must
drink, the following advice, which I
quote, will be of benefit to you:
" 'Give your wife $2 to buy a gallon
of whisky. Buy your drinks from no
one but your wife, and by the time
the first gallon is gone she will have
$8 to put in the bank and $2 to start
business again. Should you continue
to buy drinks from her ten years, and
then die with snakes in your boots,
she will have enough to fc iry you de
cently. educate your children, buy a
house and lot, marry a decent man and
quit thinking about you.' "
R. R. REVENUES REACH BILLIION
Chicago, Sept. 22.—Railroad finan
cial results for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1916, made public to-day
through the Railway Age Gazette,
show that net revenues for the year
crossed the billion mark for the first
time.
The net operating revenues for the
year were $1.176,804,001. or $5,134
per mile, as compared with $938,560,-
638, or $4,231 per mile f6r 1913. The
average mileage represented In 1916
waa 229,229, and in 1813, 221,829.
HARRISBURG, PA., FRIDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 22, 1916
HOTEL MOVEMENT
SWINGS ALONG BY
LEAPS AND BOUNDS
John S. Musser, Rotary Chair
man, Says His Committee Is
Meeting With Success
"The Rotary Club has entered
whole heartedly into the campaign for
the new hotel," said John S. Musser,
chairman of the Rotary Club hotel
committee, to-day. "The subchairmen
with their committeemen were out all
morning. Many of the men laid aside
their personal business for more than
half the day in order to make a quick
round-up of the members of the club
[Continued on Page 15]
Body of Missing Boy Is
* Found at Foot of High Cliff
Sunbury, Pa., Sept. 22. Ralph
Mickey, 15, was found with his neck
broken, at the foot of Blue hill here
lato yesterday after being missing
eight hours.
With a young companion he had
climbed to the top of the hill, and al
though the other boy did not see the
accidsnt, it is believed he fell off the
top of the hill down a perpendicular
incline of more than 325 feet
HUGHES IN MIDST
OF BUSIEST DAY
Making 13 Speeches; Charges
Wilson With Intrigue; T. R.
and Taft Bury Hatchet
Richmond, Ind., Sept. 22. —Charles
E. Hughes, Republican nominee for
the presidency, left here at 7.30 o'clock
thiß morning for the busiest day of his
second presidential campaign trip. The
nominee had thirteen addresses on his
program, concluding with a speech at
South Bend, where he will spend the
night. The program of to-day's ad
dresses in order follows:
New Castle, Anderson, Muncie, El
wood, Tipton, Frankfort, Kokomo,
Marion, North Manchester, Warsaw,
(Continued on Page 21)
"808-808-WHITE" WHISTLES PLUMP
LITTLE PARTRIDGE
Shrill Call of Bird Greets Ear ly Risers Who Pass by Federal
Square; Has Been on Job Two Mornings
Bob-White, Bob-Bob, Bob-White!
The shrill whistle ot one plump little partridge, perched on a pile of lumber
at the Post Office building, for two mornings has greeted early risers. He
made, his appearance yesterday and to-day between 5 and 6 o'clock.
Nothing appeared to worry "Mr. Partridge." He came from Capitol Parlf
to the coping at Third and Locust streets, then perched himself on the top of
the lumber, and gave forth his morning notes. When daylight was on in full
blast thin early morning visitor flew away in the direction of the river.
Where the partridge conies from is not known. Early In the week a part
ridge was seen in River Park near State street. Some years ago for several
weeks a partridge came to Capitol Park and was also seen on the Post Office
lawn during early morning hours.
The caller remains from twenty to thirty minutes about the Post Office,
whistling all the time. No one disturbs him. Night attaches at the Post Office
see that "Bob White" is not molested.
CATHOLICS HERE ]
GET READY TO !
GREET BISHOP
Arrange For Services at St. Pat
rick's Cathedral Next
Thursday
Monsignor M. M. Hassett returned
from Philadelphia this afternoon
where he with the priests of the Har
risburg diocese attended the consecra
tion of Bishop Philip R. McDevitt.
Plans were at once taken up for in
stallation ceremonies to be held Thurs
day, September 28, at noon at St. Pat
rick's Cathedral.
Chairman J. W. Rodenhaver of the
reception committee will confer this
evening with Monsignor Hassett re
garding the program for next Thurs
day and, an arrangement for the pub
lic reception on the night of Tuesday,
October 3.
It is not known definitely whether
Archbishop Prendergast will be here
[Continued on Page 15]
DIET REJECTS DEMAND
London. Sept. 22. The Hungarian
Diet has rejected the motion of Counts
Andrassy and Apponyi, the leaders of
the opposition, for the convocation of
the delegations, according to a Bura
pest dispatch to Reuter's byway of
Amsterdam.
RAID OF VILLA
COMPLETE SUCCESS
Captured 16 Auto Loads of
Arms; Made Speech From
Governor's Palace
Wurhington, D. C„ Sept. 22.—An
official account of Villa's raid on Chi
huahua City last Saturday, received at
the War Department from Brigadifer-
General Bell at El Paso, says the ban
dit chief captured some of Carranza's
artillery and sixteen automobile loads
of arms and ammunition, liberated 200
prisoners from the penitentiary and
made off after being joined by from
1,000 to 1,500 soldiers of the Carranza
garrison.
According to General Bell's infor-
L Continued on Pa&e 11]
TWO ENGLISHMEN,
; 36 CARRANZISTAS
SHOT BY BANDITS
Raiding Villistas Almost Wipe
Out De Facto Force; British
ers Shelter Them
Galveston, Tex., Sept. 22.—Two
British subjects were taken from their
homes and shot and thirty-six of a
party of thirty-eight Caranza soldiers
were killed in a raid on September 16
in an Aquilla oil camp near Tuxpam j
by bandits calling themselves Villistas,
according to a report brought here to- !
day by the steamer Topila from Tam
pico.
The Carranzistas put up a hard
fight, it was said, but were outnum
bered and overpowered. Two of their
officers took refuge in the house of
the Englishmen. They were discov
ered and put to death an dthe Eng
lishmen killed for having given them
shelter, the report adds.
90 Prominent Authors
Protest Affiliation With
Federation of Labor
New York, Sept 22. Ninety mem
bers of the Authors' League of Amer
ica have signed and issued a protest
against the proposal to affiliate with
the American Federation of Labor.
Included in that number are many
well known writers, such as Jack Lon
don, George Ade, Cyrus Townsend
Brady. John Burroughs. Winston
Churchill. Hamlin Carland, Emerson
Hough, Joseph C. Lincoln, Brander
Matthews, Ray Stannard Baker. Sam
uel G. Blythe, Irvin S. Cobb, James M.
Flagg, Will Payne, Ida M. Tarbell,
! Kate Douglass Wiggins. Owen Wister
and Edward Mott Woolley.
They denounce the proposed affilia
tion as "inappropriate, disadvantag
eous and dangerous," and assert that
those favoring it dwell on the advan
tages of standardized contracts in the
publishing, magazine and theatrical
business but fail to show that it would
attain any of these advantages.
A promise that the Authors' League
would receive the support of the Fed
eration of Labor without any recipro
cal obligation or support is criticised
as one-sided, unfair and wholly un
worthy of the Authors' League.
The question of affiliation was refer
red to members of the league last
Spring. To be effective the proposal
must be approved at a regular meeting
DROPS HIS 28TH AEROPLANE
Berlin, Sept. 22. Captain Boelke,
Germany's most famous aviator, on
Wednesday brought down two entente
aeroplanes, making his record 28 ma
chines disposed of during the war.
ONE HURT WHEN GUN EXPLODES
Washington, D. C., Sept. 22.—Yeo
man Robert W. Cooper, who had his
right forearm fractured, was the only
man injured by the recent explosion
of a 12-inch gun muzzle aboard the
battleship Michigan during target
practice off the Virginia Capes. The
ship reported to-day that she was on
her way to the Philadelphia navy yard
for repairs.
RESUME ARMOR HEARINGS
Washington, Sept 2?. Hearings
on the location of a site for the sll,.
000,000 government armor plate fac
tory were reopened to-day by Secre
tary Daniels to give delegations from
Knoxville, Jersey City and Perth Am
boy, N. J., and several other cities an
. opportunity to be heard.
DEFEAT TURNED
INTO VICTORY BY
VONMACKENSEN
Executes Encircling Movement
Which Compels Entente to j
Retreat in Disorder I
HAD BEEN ON RUN HIMSELF j
British in New Thrust Capture
Two Lines of Trenches
Along Somme
The tide of the great battle in the
Rumanian province of Dobrudja has
again turned, this time in favor of
the central powers, according to Ber
lin to-day. Field Marshal Von Mack
ensen has succeeded in breaking the
Rumanian and Russian resistance, the
German War Office reports, executing
an encircling movement which com
pelled the entente forces to retreat in
disorder.
It was only last night that an offi
cial announcement from Bucharest de
clared. that the battle which had been
in progress for six da's had ended
Wednesday with the defeat of the
Germans, Bulgarians and Turks who
[Continued 'in Page 221
Eskimo Guide Asks
Million For Real Story on
Discovery of North Pole
New York, Sept. 22. Mene Wal
lace. Eskimo guide, arrived in New
Tork yesterday on the Red Cross
steamship Stephano with a little "get
rich-quick" scheme which he believes
will net him $1,000,000.
He was not averse to telling about
his scheme. It rests entirely upon his
own modest assertion that he can set
tle beyond doubt the dispute between
Doctor Cook and Admiral Peary as to
who discovered the North Pole.
Wallace accompanied Captain Sam
uel Bartlett on the Peary relief ex-
v, 0n „„^ ecently he was a member of
the McMillan-Crocker Land party. On
til , he P roclai med that he is
the only living man who really knows
who discovered the pole, and he Is will-
WUh UllS lnformation for
"My information will startle the
world. I have absolute proof of who
discovered the pole."
SEAPLANE BOMBS DOVER
London, Sept. 22.—A German seaplane to-day flew overi
Dover and dropped three bombs. The missiles caused no casu
alties, according to an official announcement. The hostile sea
plane was chased away by anti-air craft guns.
i '
, CONFERENCES PRECEDE REICHSTAG *
Berlin, Sept. 22, via London.—The Reichstag, which is to
be reopened Thursday, September 28, will be preceded in the
,course of the next few days by confidential conference be-'
tween Gottleib Von Jagow, the minister of foreign affairs, and
the various party leaders. Dr. Von Bethmann-Hollweg, the
imperial chancellor, is expected to address the Reichstag on thei
first day of the session. Afterwards Dr. Karl Helfferich, the
secretary of the interior, will speak on the economic situation
in Germany.
1 FUNSTON CREDITS REPORT
, San Antoriio, Tex., Sept. 22.—General Funston to-day said
he placed full credence in the report of Villa's attack on Chi-i
huahua City sent to the War Department by Brigadier Gen-,
eral Bell. He said he had been informed that General Bell's
'information was gained from reliable persons who had come to
El Paso directly from Chihuahua City immediately after the
battle. i
l
1 BELL'S REPORT A "TISSUE OF LIES"
Chihuahua City, Mex, Sept 22.—Commenting on the re-
in American newspapers attributed to General Bell at
El Paso of the Villa raid upon this city, last Saturday, General
•Jacinto Trevino, commanding the Carranza army of the north,
to-day issued a statement to the Associated Press in which he
described it as "a tissue of lies and falsehoods."
1
, ' l
' BELL REITERATES AUTHENICITY OF REPORT
El Paso, Sept. 22.—Brigadier General Bell, Jr., command
ing the El Paso military district, said to-day that his infor-'
mation concerning Villa's Hidalgo day attack upon Chihuahua
City was obtained from "several most reliable sources." While
he did not divulge his sources of intelligence, he said that hei
•had every reason to believe that his report to the War Depart
ment was founded on facts and not based on border rumors.
General Bell refused to comment on General Trevino's state
ment. '
_
, MARRIAGE LICENSES ,
Jeremiah Junto* Wlhon and Marie Plaek, city.
Ednard I.OUIHC Parker and France* Amelia C orcoran, city.
Howard (ieorgp Hidlnger ann Amy fa. Mheadn. Gettyaburs.
Kdnln llarley Bear and Kather Kllnabetk Sehnuder, city. i
I William Mamhall Jlonery and Minerva May Hutton, New Cumberland.
24 PAGES CITY EDITION
CRIMINAL SUITS
FOR COAL REBATE
WILL BE SOUGHT
Reading Barons Likely to Bd
Placed on Trial After
Civil Action
CONCESSIONS CONTINUE
Illegal Preferences Amounting
to $100,000,000 Being Grant
ed Even Now
Washington, Sept. 22. The Read
ling coal "barons" have laid them
selves open to serious charges by al
leged illegal preferences and rebates
amounting to more than $100,000,000,
granted to the Reading Coal Company
by the Reading Holding Company.
In the event the Government ia
victorious in its civil suit in the Su
preme Court of the United States,
these alleged violations of the act to
regulate commerce are to be taken
I up and the advisability of Instituting
criminal proceedings In the Federal
courts of Pennsylvania is to be con
sidered by the Attorney General.
Concessions Unparalleled
■ Although Department of Justice
officers are reticent about outlining
their plans for the future, the fact that
criminal prosecutions under the law
[Continued on Page 11]
"Famous" Statue Thrown
in Rubbish; "Butch" Peeved
Atlantic City. N. J., Sept. 22.
"Butch" McDevitt, Pennsylvania's
one-time "millionaire for a day," is
; evidently peeved over tlie disrespect
i which the new city government has
| treated the bronze statue of himself
j which he presented former Mayor
1 William Riddle, who has since re
j tired. Mayor Riddle, an admirer and
friend of "Butch," had the statue
i placed in the corridor of the City Ha'll,
| When the new commissioners came
into power they had the bronze
I "Butch" removed and stored in the
] rubbish bins in tho basement of the
Municipal Building. Thereupon
"Butch" demanded its freight
and boxing costs collect, and the
commissioners have authorized the
city clerk to comply with his request.
