THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910. at the post
office at Ronan. Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1879.
VOL. VII. NO. 21. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, SEPTEMBER 22, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
HEBREW UNIONS
VOTE TO STRIKE
New York, Sept. 19.-The United
hlebrew Trades representing a mem
bership of 200,000 organized workers,
voted to go onla sympathetic strike as
an aid to the striking carmen, if they
are called on to do so by the Central
Federated union.
The vote was taken at a meeting of
delegates said to represent every craft
in the United Trades, including the
garment industries, in which many
women are employed.
Five hundred motormen and conduc
tors employed by the New York and
Queens Railway company have struck.
Brooklyn and Richmond (Staten Is
land) now are the only boroughs of
the city not affected by the strike.
700,000 Out Thursday.
Failure of negotiations being con
ducted by Mayor Mitchel to provide
a basis of settlement of the traction
strike in this city will result in a
call Thursday for a sympathetic strike
of approximately 700,000 workers,
union leaders declared after a confer
elice of several crafts.
The call will be issued, it was stat
ed, to all unions affiliated with the
Central Federated Union of New York,'
the Central Labor Union of Brooklyn,
and the Federated Union of the Bronx,
Westchester and Yonkers. Some of
the unions already have authorized a
strike, union leaders said, and referen
dums are in progress in others.
ATTACK ELEVATED TRAINS
Gotham Strike Sympathizers Hurl
Stones and Bottles.
New York, Sept. 19.-Repeated at
tacks from roof-tops were made on
la -;ing elevated trains during the
early hours of the day.
Stones and bottles crashed through
car windows and several passengers
were injured.
In the Bronx a policeman was hurt
while dispersing a crowd of strike
sympathizers who were throwing
bricks.
Normal service on subway and ele
vated lines is being maintained, ac
cording to police reports.
VILLAISTAS CHARGE
IN HAIL OF LEAD;i
El Paso, Tex., Sept. 19.-A detach- t
nent of twenty Villa cavalrymen en- t
gaged Carranza infantrymen on the I
sec ond floor of the state palace, ac
cording to additional details of the at
tack upon C'hihiahuta City received 1
her- by Andreas Garcia, Mexican con-!
T:e bandits rocle the-ir horses into
the 1-ilding and up the stone sicps to I
the second floor m pursuit of the gov
ern:i.ent guard, which fell back before
the:.:.
!cc facto markiscen picked off six of
the mounted bandits as they rode into
one of the rooms, the remainder mak
ing their escape. but not until several
horses had been killed, it was stated.
The consular dispatches added thati
Josc Inez Salazer, one of the most no
torious of the Mexican leaders who
have operated along the American
frontier in Mexico's five years of civil
strife, was killed in the engagement
following his liberation from the peni
tentiary.
Juan Beltram commanded the ban
dits in the attack, according to the
mescage. while Villa himself remain
ed cutsiclo the city.
Reprts received here by United
State- secret service agents and trans
mitt<' to Washington indicated Villa
aechrents regard the attack as result
ing in at least a moral victory for
Villa, who, according to them, made
the foray without Intention of occupy
ing the city, but rather as a physical
demonstration of his ability to give
disgruntled Carranza soldiers an op
portunity to join him.
Say Vessel Was Not Warned.
New York, Sept. 19.-G. W. Dillard,
Richmond, Va., and other American I
survivors of the British steamer Kel*
vina, made depositions on their arrival
here that the Kelvina was torpedoed
and sunk without warning. The Kel
vina was under charter to an English
firm and was carrying horses from
Newport News to Glasgow. She was
torpedoed at 2:20 a. m. on Sept. 2 in
the Bristol channel.
Montana Coal Strike Settled.
Bear Creek, Mont., Sept. 19.-Coal
miners here are back at work after a
strike lasting a week, the trouble hav
ing been settled by a compromise.
Dilfficulties arose over the terms of
contract work.
A Passing Tribute
Mr. Wm. H. Reichard was born Oct.
22, 1858, and died Sept. 12, 1916, at 4
a. m., aged 57 years, 1 month and 20
days. Mr. Reichard was born in Knox
ville, Iowa, his residence being there
until 1910 when he took up a homestead
in township 20-21. living there until he
was called away. He is survived by
his wife and one son, Clarence, three
sisters, one of whom is Mrs. W. W.
Meranda of Horte, and one brother of
Knoxville, Iowa, and a host of friends
in both Iowa and Montana. In child
hood he was baptised in the Methodist
Episcopal church. He was a loyal and
faithful husband, father, neighbor and
friend.
The community was shocked by the
sudden death on Tuesday morning,
September 12, of William H. Reichard.
Were it not sinful, as well as futil, we
might well question the wisdom of
providence that takes such men from a
home and from the community. We do
not know why one is left and another is
taken. We do not understand why the
strong man is stricken in the fullness
of life and the weak one is spared for
I many days. If it be that we shall thus
learn the lesson of human helplessness
and the brittleness of that thread called
human life, we may understand, but we
are not consoled. He was respected
and honored by business associates and
acquaintances. In his home he was
greatly blessed as husband and father.
But in the twinkle of an eye this is all
changed. The places in which he has
moved shall know him no more; the
warm handclasp, the winning smile,
the cherry greeting-gone, and forever.
But those who loved him, those who
knew and honored him, those who
watched the space in the sky from
whence' a star has fallen, will always
carry a sustaining remembrance of him
as he was, and in the mystic silences
will often feel the touch of a vanished
hand and hear again the sound of voice
that is still. MOYCE CLUB.
OCTOBER 1 IS THE LAST
DAY OF REGISTRATION
Along about the 7th day of Novem
ber, and probably about the 8th day of
October, there are going to be a lot of
voters on the Flathead who will realize
that they are not eligible to cast a vote
at the election to be held on the said
7th day of November, 1916. The reason
they will not be eligible will be that
they failed to register as required by
law. From present indications there
will be a large number so situated, as
many can be counted now who are not
registered. After today there will be
just 12 days more to present yourself
to some notary public or registry agent
and sign the blank prepared which will
permit you to cast your ballots.
The election this year should be of
such importance as to prompt every
man and woman in Montana to register
and vote. It is a presidential election,
a full state and county ticket is to be
elected and there are some questions
submitted to the voters of the state
by the legislature which should receive
the sanction or disapproval of a ma
jority of the people of the state, not
merely a majority of those who go and
vote. The question of prohibition
should not be decided by so few of the
voters; it should receive the approval
or disapproval of a majority of ALL
the voters. Then there is the question
of exempting certain church property
from taxation. Very little has been
said in the newspapers about this mat
ter and it looks very much as if it was
to be allowed to go by default so far as
a public discussion is concerned. It is
important. however, and should not be
passed over lightly.
The women of the Flathead should
register and vote this year above all
others. It is the first chance they have
had to vote for president or for state
and county officers. They are inter
ested in the prohibition question and
should assume the place in affairs the
votes of their male friends gave them,
It is the highest duty of every citizen
to vote. and all should do so.
Too often there is much complaint
about the way public affairs are con
ducted and most generally it will be
found upon investigation that the loud
est croaker is the man who does not
vote. No one who neglects to go to
polls on election day snould complain
afterwards. The stay-at-homes might
have changed the situation and the en
tire program had they exercised the
right of ballot.
If you do not know befere whom to
register, ask the Pioneer man and he
will find out and tell you. Don't put it
I off until October 7, but register today.
Looping the Loop at Night
y F4.
:rIyif{ 1 ';ý?. i
,ý. .a" ta
2 ' :. . ý :.! .y:',ý:,". ' .'ý.Y''=.: ." +?`"
-ý, ý. iý `''` ayý1 A3'>.ý,.?`~k'y::"'`ýý'y''ýrý":a.j . "ý'ý
ONTANA will get its first taste
of the newest thrill in aviation
looping the loop by the light of
the moon. Using the night sky as a
background, one of the world's great
est aviators will, for twenty minutes
each night during the State Fair, tly
over the city of Helena that Mon
tanans may watch and marvel at the
outlaw comrt tracing crazy patterns
of fire among the orderly stars.
At a height of 3,000 feet this nerial
master will perform the most daring
RAILROAD GRADING
STARTED THISWEEK
Chief Engineer Mowery, of the local
engineer corps of the Northern Pacific,
was in Ronan Monday and while here r
gave out the information that one of
the contractors was at work near Pol
son with his grading outfit. A steam
shovel is on the way across the lake
and extensive construction is expected
soon. 1
Mr. Mowery says that some materiai
has been unloaded at Dixon and that
other sub-contractors are expected to
commence work in the near future.
There will be considerable heavy work
at both the Dixon and Poison ends of
the proposed line and this work could
be prosecuted during the winter
months just as well as at any other
period and from present indications
there will be much grading done yet
this year.
SENATOR BROWER ELECTED
CHAIRMAN CENTRAL COMMITEE
The republican committeemen elected
at the primary election in August met
in Missoula last Friday and organized
I for the fall campaign. Senator A. J.
Brower of Ronan, was unanimously I
elected to the position of chairman of
the central committee, with Frank
Teall as vice chairman and John I)ahl
gren treasurer., An executive commit
tee consisting of J. M. Dixon, Ed.
Donlan, Mrs. F. S. Lusk, Mrs. W. E.
Moore, E. C. Mulroney, W. J. McCor
mick, W. W. Markle, A. B. Beckwith
and J. A. Brown were appointed. Any
vacancies on the central committee will
be filled by this committee.
Quite a number of the committemen
from the Flathead were in attendance
and Senator Brower says that every
body is enthusiastic and confident of
success in November. The real cam
paign for county offices will not be
under way until in October, a short
but active campaign being contem
plated.
Important Meeting
All those who signed the Midland
Lyceum course contract are requested
to meet in C. F. Rathbone's office
next Wednesday night to arrange
for the financial part of the course.
The tickets are to be sold and a hall
secured, besides other matters to at
tend toe Be sure and attead
and thrilling feats in aviation with his
bipl)n1 ahiaze with fireworks. Loo()"
ing the loop, flying upside down, aerial
cartwheels, followed by a straight
pitch eait tiwa td of nearly a thousand
feet, will prove to the many spectators
that aviation has advanced to a point
where it can he said that man is mas
ter of the air.
Two flights aclt day at the Fair
Grounds and one flight each night over
the city during the week of Sept. 25
to 30.
MANY FILE ON IN"
DEPENDENT TICKET
The Missoula county voter will be
given a fifth chance to elect a good
man on November 7. The fifth column
on the ballot became a sure thing with
the filing of the non-partisan petitions
of A. M. Getchell, James L. Wallace,
and R. J. Whitaker, with County
Clerk Babington. This movement has
been hanging fire for some time but
nothing definite was learned until last
Saturday.
A. M. Getchell filed for county com
missioner; James L. Wallace for coun
ty attorney, and R. J. Whitaker for
re-election to the office of sheriff.
C. N. Madeen has filed his petition
for judge of the district court in the
office of the secretary of state.
These petitions, and others that are
to be filed soon, will constitute the fifth
of Missoula county's selections. On
the prohibition ticket will appear only
the name of J. W. Jones, candidate
for sheriff.
On the non-partisan ticket as many
individuals may run for the numerous
offices as desire or can secure sufficient
signatures on petition. A dozen or
more may run for any one office. In
signing the petition of the non-partisan
candidate voters may sign without re
gard to party affiliation and may place
signature on any number of petitions
for any particular office. Missoulian.
BARR TELLS BEEJ GROWERS
HOW TO TREAT THEIR LAND
(By R. M. Barr.)
Fall plowing for sugar beets is very
important and maximum results depend
entirely upon it. It means from one
to three tons of beets per acre increase
over spring plowing and an extra effort
should be made by the grower to have
all 41s beet land plowed before winter
sets in.
The farmer who has so much work
on hand that he can not do this plow
ing can afford to pay $9 or $4 per acre
to have it done, as it will be returued
to him over 10( per cent from his beet
}rain stubble lands should be thor
eughly disced as soon as the grain is
removed so that the stubble will be cut
up and mixed with the surface soil be
fore plowing. By this method a good
compact seed bed can be easily made
in the spring and the heavy stubbles
instead of being a detriment, are of
material value to the crop. This land
should be plowed from eight to 12
inches deep, or rather depth of plowing
should be regulated by previous plow
ing, and not more than three inches of
new soil should be brought to surface,
as too much raw, new soil is detrimen
tal to any crop.
Timothy and clover lands should be
handled very much in the same way.
Discing before plowing is very neces
sary, as by cutting up the meadow,
especially on heavy soils, the aftermath
gets well incorporated wite soil, and
decomposing sets in quickly in the
spring, and much benefit to the beet
crop is the result, while if no discing
or cutting of surface is done and this
sod is turned into solid furrows, it takes
two years before beneficial results are
obtained from this grass sod as a fer
tilizer.
Alfalfa lands should be plowed as
soon as the last cutting of hay is re
moved. First plowing or crowning
should be done as shallow as possible,
say from two to four inches in depth,
then well harrowed to separate all
earth from crowns and allowed to
stand until just before winter sets in,
when it should be plowed the second
time as deeply as possible, thus bury
ing the crowns to a depth that they
will not interfere with cultivation of
beets, and also getting better value
from them as a fertizer.
If your time is limited, by all means
get your crowning done this fall and
your second plowing in the spring.
Alfalfa is a hard plant to kill and the
double plowing system is the most suc
cessful way to handle it.
Floating or leveling should be done
on those lands as soon as they are dry
enough to work in the spring then har
rowed with a common spike tooth har
row at intervals until seeding time ar
rives.
Alternate freezing and thawing
throughout the winter will put lands
worked in the above manner in splen
did physical condition, as they are well
settled and a good solid seed bed is
easily prepared, resulting in a good
stand of beets and by proper culture,
the maximum tonnage.
The more grain you replace by grow
ing sugar beets, the more dairying and
stock feeding you can do on the same
acreage, but do not make the mistake
of trying to grow beets on grain lands
that are worn out as results will be
very unsatisfactory.
The sugar beet is an expensive crop
to grow, as we have tricd to show you
in previous articles, so select your best
lands, treat them in the proper manner
and you will not be disappointed by re
sults.
OFFICIAL FIGURE ON NOM
INATING PRIMARY ELECTION
All the counties have finally sent of
ficial returns to the secretary of state
at Helena and the same have been can
vassed. The returns show that more
interest centered in the gubernatorial
fight than in the senatorship, 5,000
more votes being-cast for gubernatorial
aspirants than for senatorial aspirants.
For senator 84,875 votes were cast
and for governor 89,131. The Repub
lican majority on the vote for governor
was over 9,000, indicating that if the
full registered vote of 210,000 had
turned out at the primary polls, the
republican majority would have been
close to 20,000. The totals as shown
by the official canvass are as follows:
REPUI;LICAN
Senator: Edwards 19,721, Pray 29,
256; congress: Brennan 10,376. Carnal
8,181, Crull 3,841, Farr 15,369, Linder
man 13,683, Luce 6,508, McLaughlin
5,703, Rankin 22,549; chief justice:
Brantley 40,823; governor: Cooney
10,425, Edwards 13,933, Galen 9,554,
Gerhart 3,102, Henderson 6,012, Leigh
ton 1,461, Sands 4,639; lieutenant gov
ernor: Annin 19,796, Gibson 16,948,
Teagarden 9,564; attorney general:
Brown 14,737, Ford 29,941, Griffin 3,
540, Shea 8,408; secretary of state:
Hazelbaker 21,907, Stewart 22,778;
treasurer: Faust 10,215. Hart 17,483,
Hedrick 15,921; auditor: Fenner 18,612,
Guenther 7,375, Rhoades 17,943, rail
road commissioner: Birkland 11,566,
Boyle 19,309. Godfrey 4,831, Morley
8,992; clerk supreme court: Craig 39,
005; superintendent: Bramble 20,802,
Trumper 23,609.
DEMOCRATIC
Senator: Myers 35,896; congress:
16,160, Evans 24,022, Kirschwing 7,581,
Mitchell 17,893; chief justice: Patter
son 31,856; governor: Romney 11,820,
Stewart 28,185; lieutenant governor:
Abbott 8,317, Carey 6,557, McDowell
19,770; attorney general: Poindexter
16,067, Woody 14,862; secretary of
state: Hicks 11,475, Swindlehurst 14,
382, Wood 9,766; treasurer: Cullerton
13,937, Farrell 17,341, Sathre 4,028;
auditor: Keating 52,586; railroad com
missioner: Baldwin 7,640, Johnson 12,.
517, Wells 10,253, Wilham 4.419; clerk
supreme court: Carroll 20.226, Hogan
I 10,503, Pond 4,823; superintendent:
º Dave. 16,830, O'Donnell 20,860.
BLACKMAILERS
IN FEDERAL NET
Chicago, Sept. 19.-While . federal
authorities here prepared to arraign
for preliminary hearing seven mem
bers of an alleged blackmail gang who
used the Mann act as their chief
weapon, detectives, fortified with in
formation obtained from two alleged
members of the gang who confessed,
made arrests in other cities and
spread a dragnet for H. C. Woodward,
sought as director-in-chief of the syn
dicate.
Not to bare Victims.
Hinton G. Clabaugh of the United
States department of justice declared
he had obtained sufficient evidence to
convict the gang without exposing the
names of any of their wealthy men
whose flirtations with pretty women
led them into traps from which they
escaped only on payment of large
sums, will be shielded from publicity,
except as a last resort, it is said.
The evidence obtained in two cases
already generally known, authorities
said, together with a mass of incrimi
nating evidence found in the raid on
the apartment where the seven were
arrested, will be presented to a fed
eral commissioner. Clabaugh expects
the seven will be ordered removed to
Philadelphia for trial.
Two More Arrested.
Developments in the case reported
to Clabaugh included the arrest at
New York of Franly Croker, alleged
former member of the bang, who is
said to have confessed to a part in the
swindling of Mrs. Regina Klipper of
Philadelphia, and the arrest at Phila
delphia of William Butler, held there
in connection with an alleged black
mail plot against the late Mrs. Susan
C. S. Winpenny.
The alleged fleecing of Mrs. Klip
per, authorities charged, was brought
about through Crocker, who, it is said,
won her confidence. A compromising
situation was brought about, it is al
leged, and Donohue and Irwin, as wit
nesses, demanded blackmail,
How Gang Was Caught.
A detailed statement as to the direct
cause of the apprehension of the gang
was made by an official of the de
partment of justice. He said that
Crocker's confession to obtain immuni
ty for a petty offense of larceny was
the opening wedge in the wall of se
crecy the alleged blackmailers had
maintained about themselves.
Crocker, the official said, was ar
rested early In the spring for theft of
a diamond ring from a New York so
ciety woman at Tampa, Fla., and,
realizing that the confession of a
blackmail plot would overshadow a
larceny offense, told his story.
This confession was obtained in
March or April, but it was not until
the Republican national convention
here in .lone that the first member of
the "syndicate" was arrested.
Famous Feudist Killed.
Ilazard, Ky., Sept. 19.-Muse Felt
ner, famous feudist and moonshiner, it
berare known here, was shot and
killed by a United States deputy mar
shal when he tried to escape while
being brought here from his home in
Leslie county. Feltner figured promi
nently in the Ilargis-Cockerell feud,
before Judge .1. 13. Marcum was as
sassinated at the courthouse door In
Jackson more than ten years ago.
Missouri Jurist Is Dead.
Hoonville, .llo., Sept. 19.-Judge
William M. Williaris, former judge of
the Missouri supreime court and one of
fIre state's leading attorneys, died sud
drenly at his home here. He was six
ty-six years old.
RESULTS ON THE DIAMOND
National League.
Standing of the Clubs-Brooklyn,
.599; Philadelphia, .593; Boston, .583;
New York, .534; Pittsburg, .464; Chi
cago, .440; St. Louis, .425; Cincinnati,
.580.
New York 2, 1; Pittsburg 0, 1.
Brooklyn 6. Chicago 1.
Philadelphia 6, t"hicago 1.
Boston 2, St. louis 0.
American League.
Standing of the Clubs-Boston, .570;
Detroit, .576; Chicago, .566; New York,
.521; St. Louis, .514; Cleveland, .510;
Washington, .489; Philadelphia, .223.
Philadelphia 2, Detroit 0.
Washington 1, St. Louis 0.
Boston 4, Chicago 3.
American Association.
Standing of the Clubs-Loulasille,
604; Indianapolis, .570; Minneapolis
632; Kansas City, .539; St. Paul, .507;
Toledo, ,4A7; Columbus, .448; Milwau
kee, .381. ,
St. Pout 7, Columbus 6.
Louisville 6, 13; Kansas City 0, 6.
Misasapolls 5, T'Nedo 3.
34d1e4ap1its 6, Milwaukee 0.
