TKe Echo has ■
reading circulation
oi over 4.000 per
sons who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 38
THE WOMEN'S SPECIAL
WILL COME TO WASH.
Twenty Nationally Prominent Women
Will Tour United States in Interest
of Hughes in October
The voters of the United States are
promised something unique in the way
of electioneering in this long to be re
membered campaign. The trip origi
nated with and the expense is all to be
paid for by women. In every point
visited (men) local speakers will co
operate with the demonstration but
otherwise all the speakers are to be
women. The whole affair is under the
direction of the Women's Committee
of the Hughes Alliance.
One of the objects is to show that
all women are NOT FOR Wilson, as
contended by some democratic spell
binders, because he has "kept us out
of the war."
The following nationally prominent
women have indicated their intention
to be on the Hughes train. As many
more are expected to join before the
train starts:
Mrs. Arthur Capper, Topeka, Kan.;
Mrs. Geo. Sutherland, Salt Lake City,
Utah; Mrs. Herbert C. Humphrey,
Reno, Nev.; Mrs. Thurston Ballard.
Louisville. Kv.; Mrs. Nicholas Long
worth, Cincinnati, O.; Mrs. Harry Payne
Whitney, New York; Miss Maud Wet
more, Newport, R. I.; Mrs. Daniel
Guggenheim, New York; Mrs. Geo.
H. Partridge, Minneapolis, Minn.;
Mrs. Walter Damrosch, New York;
Mrs. Winslow Williams, Baltimore, Md.;
Mrs. Spencer Rose, Colorado Springs.
Col.; Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt, New
York; Mrs. Gifford Pinchot, Pennsyl
vania; Mrs. Phoebe Hearst, California;
Mrs. Charles M. Hoffman, Newport,
R. 1., and Mrs. Edward T. Stotes
bnrv, Philadelphia, Pa.
This train will visit 28 states, as fol
lows: Conneticut, Massachusetts, New
York, Ohio. Michigan, Illinois, Wis
consin, Minnesota, North Dakota, Mon
tana, Washington, Oregon, California,
Nevada, Arizona, Utah, Idaho, Wyom
ing, Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, Indi
ana, Kentucky, West Virginia, Penn
sylvania, Maryland, Delaware and New
Jersey.
It will give women opportunity for
political education and experience in
the most important states in an election
vital to the whole future of America.
Crispen-Rollins
Miss Bell Crispin, daughter of Mrs.
E. G. Gowing, and Lester Rollins were
married in Wenatchee Thursday. Mrs.
Gowing and Mrs. Rollins went to We
natchee to attend the Wedding. Mr.
and Mrs. Gowing, mother and step
father of the bride have lived here the
past three years, Mr. Going being em
ployed in the city water department.
Mr. Rollins parents have resided here
for a number of years. Both families
have hosts of friends who wish the
young couple all that life has to give.
Mr. Rollins is a G. N. fireman and has
a run out of Wenatchee, where he and
his wife purpose making their home.
A Former Leavenwbrth Lady
Married
The marriage of Miss Louise Wedell,
of (Seattle, 'and Mr. Edgar Tyson, of
Atlanta, Ga., in Seattle this week will
recall the name of the bride's parents,
Mr. and Mrs. G. A. Wedell, who re
sided here for several years and remov
ed to Wenatchee some two years ago,
and a few moths ago removed to Seattle
where the family is permanently set
tled.
Reception at Masonic Hall
~ The Kumtux'Club "held a reception
last Friday evening from 8 to 10 in
honor of the teachers. The object
was to give the parents an opportunity
to meet the teachers of the public
schools. After an informal literary and
musical program was given light re
freshments were served.
Batter Wrappers at The Echo office.
TOe Xeavenwoctb WM
Peterson-Van Brocklin
Miss Evangeline Belle Peterson and (
Wm. T. Van Brocklin were united in i
marriage Tuesday evening at eight
o'clock at the Lutheran church, Rev. I
F. E. Sterns officiating. Mr. Van
Brocklin and his bride took the early
morning train at 3:30 Wednesday for
the coast where they will spend a week
and return to Leavenworth. Miss
Peterson is a young lady of charming
personality with a host of friends. The
groom is one of Leavenworth's young
business men and is a member of the
K. & V. B. Hardware Co.
A RINGING DECLARATION
FROM NOMINEE McBRIDF
Touches the Points About Which the
Voters Want to Know—Henry
Mcßride Hits the Spots
From an economic as well as from a
moral viewpoint our dry law has been
of great value to the people of this
state. It should not be disturbed. I
am opposed to the legislature making
any changes in it unless it be to
strengthen the means of enforcing it.
Two initiative measures, one known
as No. 18 or the Hotel Bill, and the
other as No. 24 or the Brewers Bill,
are before the people for adoption or
rejection at the November election.
These measures are in no sense a party
question. I believe, however, this
state should remain in the dry column.
No backward step should be taken.
In my judgment, the adoption of these
initiative measures, or either of them,
would be a step io the wrong direction.
I regard myself as the nominee, not
of any faction, not of any interest, not
of any group of individuals, but as the
nominee of a re-united republican party.
The democratic state administration
has been marked by inefficiency, by
neglect of duty, by making the public
service commission a football of politics,
by scandal, by looting of public funds,
by assessment of appointees for the
payment of private debts, by an ever
increasing burden upon the over patient
tax-payer.
In exchange for this the re-united
republican party ofiers a constructive
policy. It stands for a reducement of
public expenditure, for a dollar's worth
of work from every dollar contributed
to the public purse.
In the matter of appointments to
positions in the state service it stands
for fitness for the particular place,
rather than for docility in the contribu
tion of a portion of the salary for the
use of the chief executive. It staDds,
not for a looting of public funds, but
for a strict accountability. It stands
for the surrounding of the executive by
men and women of the highest calibre
devoted to the interests of the state.
It stands for the complete divorcement
of our educational institutions and of
the national guard from politics. It
stands for the taking of the public
service commission out of politics
rather than making it a football of part
isan contests. It stands for a commis
sion big enough, fair enough and strong
enough to hold the scales of justice
evenly between the people and the
corporations over which it exercises
jurisdiction. It would place every de
partment of the state government upon
the highest possible plane with the
view solely of serving the best interests
of the people at the least possible ex
pense. It stands for the short ballot
and the budget system, for the fixing
and centering of responsibility and the
making of our government, state and
local, more responsive to the will of
the tax-payer and of the people in
general. To secure these ends and
the consequent reduction in public ex
penses, constitutional revision is neces
sary. Henry Mcßride.
High links at the K. P. Hall Tonight
About thirty members of tiie Uniform
Rank of the Wenatchee lodge are com
ing to help initiate a class of candidates.
After the business meeting a lunch will
b* spread.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, September 22, 1916
W. J. LONG, CHCLAN
FOR CO. COMMISSIONER
Nominee on Democratic Ticket—Large
Property Owner—Made Acquaint
ance of Leavenworth Voters
Judge W. J. Lone, of Chelan, a large
property owner and heavy taxpayer,
spent Monday and Tuesday here among
the voters. The Judge called on The
Echo and chitted pleasantly about his
candidacy. He said he did not seek
the nomination but consented to run
because so many of his neighbors thot
somebody ought to go on the ticket
who would have a personal reason for
holding down expenses. The Judge
visited Leavenworth about ten years
ago, then democratic candidate for the
legislature from Chelan county. He is
still hale and hearty despite his years,
and as strenuous an advocate of econ
omy as eyer. He was accompanied in
his auto trip up the valley by his
daughter, Mrs. Ross Watson.
Judge Long is an old soldier and is
now suffering from a wound received
during the war of the rebellion. Two
years ago he underwent an operation
and had several bones removed from
his arm but the wound refuses to heal.
He is a fine type of American citizen,
the kind that will in a few more years
be rarely met. If elected, as he hopes
to be, the county finances will be in
safe hands.
WENATCHEE VALLEY APPLES
ADVERTISED IN NEW YORK
Easterner Told About Skookum Apples-
How Packed and When Different
Varieties Should Be Eaten
The Mutual Service Corporation, 140
Cedar street, is putting out the adver
tising lor the Skookum apples, shipped
by the Northwestern Fruit Exchange
of Seattle, and is sending out free to the
trade of the country the Northwestern's
1916 apple catalogue. This book
gives the northwest apple grade laws,
rules covering size, color of fruit of the
different kinds and localities, seasons
when the various varieties eat the best,
when shipping begins, time and a fund
of other information for trie man in
terested in apples.
Republican Nominee for Con
gress
Tom Corkery, republican nominee
for Congress in the Fifth District, de
sires to thank his friends for their loyal
support in the campaign just closed.
On account of time and expense he
was able to make only one trip over
the district before Primary day, but
expects to make a thorough campaign
in the outside counties before election.
Mr. Corkery states that he is receiving
general and hearty republican support
and invites all Republicans to com
municate with him at 540 Rookery
Bldg., Spokane, Wash., on the cam
paign. He especially asks to hear
from the Precinct Committeemen in
the outside Counties, and. in the mean
time, will get in touch with the officeis
of the various Republican committees
and clubs thruout the district. He is
taking a few days rest and will start
out actively on his speaking trip next
week.
To My Leavenworth Friends
For the substantial and generous
support given me by the voters of
Leavenworth and vicinity in the primary
election Sept. 12, at which time I was
a candidate (or the nomination of
Superior court judge of Chelan county,
I hereby return my hearty and sincere
thanks. A. H. Mohler.
The Leavenworth Mercantile Co.,
has been making some improvement in
the interior arrangement of its large
store room by erecting a ribbon and
button department on the dry goods
side, adds very much to the appearance
and a lot to the convenience of both
the clerks and the trade. A wrapping
counter has also been erected.
Apple Prices and Movement
J. M. Duffy, who lived here once,
! but removed to Wenatchee twelve
years ago, recently sold his 1916 crop
of apples, 12,000 boxes, for $1.15 per
box. One-half consists of Winter Ba
nanas and Delicious and runs high in
extra fancies. The price is said to be
i F. O. B. Wenatchee.
Those who pretend to know have
placed a value of four million dollars on
the winter crop of apples in the Yaki
ma Valley. Extra fancy are valued at
$1.10. Fancy at 90c and C grade at
75c per box. The tonnage is placed
at seven thousand cars.
The sale of forty cars of C grade
apples from the Spokane district is re
ported by Spokane papers last Satur
day. The apples are for shipment to
Calgaty, Canada,
JOHN WALCH, WALLA WALLA
PIONLER, DIED LAST SUNDAY
At the Home of M. A. Marley, Aged 82
Years—Was a Citizen of Washing
ton Almost Fifty Years
John Walch died last Sunday morn
ing at the home of his daughter, Mrs.
M. A. Marley, at 7 o'clock, with whom
he had made his home for nearly two
years, coming from Walla Walla, where
he had lived over forty years. He
lapsed into unconsciousness forty-eight
hours before final dissolution came.
The body was taken to his old home
Monday afternoon to be buried beside
his wife, and two daughters who died
within the past year, accompanied by
Mr. and Mrs. M. A. Marley.
When death called the aged pioneer
to his last reward another one of those
men who did so much to convince the
world that the great west had within
its bounds the making of an empire,
passed on. He came here a young
man and spent the best years of his
life at hard work. Built a home and
reared a family of four sons and four
daughters to manhood and womanhood.
Worked that they might find life more
pleasant than he found it. That is the
appointed lot of all who leave the old
home and go into the wilds to make
a new home. In the evening of his
aliened years he lay down and went to
sleep —the last, long sleep.
John Walch was born in Ireland and
came to America, the land of promise,
in his youth. If the story of his strug
gles might here be written it would
form an interesting chapter of frontier
experience. When he reached Walla
Walla it was little more than a rude
frontier military fort, surrounded by
what was considered a sage brush
desert. He saw it transformed —did a
man's part in helping the transforma
tion of a wilderness into one of the
proudest and richest agricultural sec
tions of the United States. The late
Judge Blanchard, of Walla Walla, was
his son-in-law. Four sons and two
daughters survive him.
leavenworth Apples Moving.
Leavenworth apples have begun to
move. They are somewhat late in
maturing this season, a complaint that
comes from every part of the valley.
A half dozen cars have been sold so far
and others will follow shortly. The
crop will not be as large as at first cal
culated on. This is mainly due to the
smaller size of the apples. Due to the
unusually cold weather during the
midsummer growing season.
Will Not Be Candidate
Mayor Day authorizes The Echo to
say that while he is very grateful for
the honor conferred on him by the peo
-ple oW>ea»e»worth,-»in-^-l»ctißg_ii«.
mayor, and has been urged again to
become a candidate, he finds it im
possible to permit the use of his name
in this connection. Under no circum
stances, he says, would he again accept
the office.
Mrs. Tom Grant is here from Seattle
visiting with old Leavenworth friends.
SENATOR POINDfXTER OUT
IN STATEMENT OF POSITION
Approves Republican Platform But Favors
Commission With Power to Fix Taiff
Rates and Remove Same
from Politics
In a statement made to the Spokes
man-Review last Saturday Senator Poin
dexter used tbese words:
"The tariff plank iv the 1916 plat
form states substantially my position,
which I have taken in the primary
campaign on that question. 'Such pro
tection,' it says, 'should be reasonable
in amount, but sufficient to protect ad
equately American industries and Am
erican labor, and be so adjusted as to
prevent undue exactions by monopolies
or trusts.'
"I do not believe that the declara
tion in the platform in favor of a tariff
commission 'to gather and compile in
formation' is adequate. I believe, on
the contrary, in a tariff commission
with power to ascertain and declare the
facts in any particular line of industry,
as to the difference in the cost of pro
duction in the United States and in
foreign countries (which has been
stated in republican platforms as a
proper measure of tariff protection);
and that such figures in each particular
case, when so found, shall be collected
as the tariff duty under provisions of
the law to that effect. There is no
question about the constitutionality of
this, as I believe I demonstrated re
cently in the senate.
"Under such an arrangement the
tariff rates upon the various classifica
tions and schedules will be kept in
harmony with the constantly changing
conditions of business. Any one en
gaged in industry, claiming to have
less protection than the measure stated
in the law, could make application
through such commission, and, upon
ascertainment of the facts, if such com
plaint was found to be well founded,
the rates could be adjusted to suit the
existing conditions.
"In this way the true principles of
the tariff could be kept in operation by
making its rates and also its classifica
tions less rigid and more responsive to
the fluctuations of wages and other
costs of production.
"In this way the gross abuses of the
tariff, and also the crude inadequacies,
often in evidence under our present
system, would be avoided; the country
would be relieved from constant agita
tion on the subject; business would be
freed from the unceruinties of party
conflicts as to the policy of the tariff;
by providing this means of adjustment
and so avoiding abuses the entire coun
try would become reconciled and per
manently under a protective system;
and the crude and unbusinesslike
methods that are at present employed
by congress in its effort to deal with
the business and scientific questions
involved in tariff classifications and
schedules would be replaced by scien
tific and businesslike procedure.
"While the tariff policy, and the
measure itself of protection, would be
thus fixed by law as the policy of the
country, the details of its administra
tion, like the details of the administra
tion of the rest of our laws (the tariff
being practically the ODly exception)
would be taken out of politics.
"My objection to the Underwood
tariff bill was indicated not only in a
speech which I made on the subject
at the time (portions of which de
tached from their context were quoted
by one of my opponents in the pri
mary campaign), but by numerous re
marks made in the senate during the
administration of sundry amendments
to the bill and by my votes upon
scores of such amendmends in favor of
THSrliTriT^he
give adequate protection particularly
to the products of the Pacific north
west which have been inadequately
protected, while many eastern manu
facturers have enjoyed excessive rates.
"Upon various other planks of the
platform, such as our foreign relations,
Mexico, Monroe doctrine, Latin Amer-'
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. If you w»nt
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
ica, the Philippines, the treaty with
Russia, military protection of the coun
try, merchant marine, rural credits,
rural free delivery, transportatioa, con
servation, civil service reform, terri
torial officials, labor laws, women's suf
Irage, and, in fact, the whole phiform.
I have shown my approval long in ad
vance of the adoption of the platform
by aggressive fights which I have made
in and out of the senate of the United
states for the policies therein stated.
"The platform has been accepted
generally in the country as of a pro
gressive character, and consequently
fundamentally represents thosj repub
lican doctrines which I, in company
with millions of other republicans, have
been fighting for in recent years, and
it has my unqualified approval and sup
port."
BANKER-FARMER CONVENTION
PULLMAN, WASH., OCT. 6 & 7
Second of Kind Held in United States-
A Large Attendance Expected
On October 6th and 7th, at the
State College of Washington, will be
held a Farmers' and Bankers' Conven
tion, the second of its kind to be held
in the United States. This excursion
to Pullman will include approximately
one thousand farmers and backers.
The idea of the convention originated
with the Committee on Agricultural
and Vocational Education of the Wash
ington Bankers' Association. It is the
hope of this committee that at least
eight hundred farmers will accept an
invitation to go to Pjllma::, where the
State College, in co-operation wilh its
visitors, will provide tvo days of genu
iae entertainment and sports.
All traveling expenses of the farmers
are to be paid by the bankers, while
the people at Pullman will furnish the
entertainment. The Pullman Cham
ber of Commerce asks the pleasure of
entertaining the visitors at dinner on
Friday evening and the State College
invites them to luncheon m Saturday,
after which Coach Dietz and his foot
ball stars will entertain them at the
annual Alumni game.
Any farmer in the state who is in
lerested in a visit to the State College
it some other man's expense should
call on his banker and ask him how
this may be arranged.
Peshastin
Mrs. Maude Stewart .pent Sunday in
Cashmere visiting friends.
Robert Cannon has accepted a posi
tion with Wells & Wade at Wenatchee.
P. N. Gregory returned from Seattle
Saturday where he spent several days.
A new roof is being put on the post
office building by J. A. Wilson and
Wm. Stage.
C. M. Hartley and family returned
home from Entiat Sunday where they
spent several weeks.
Several rattle snakes have been killed
this year around town most of them
were found in Derby canyon.
Once more the trains are running on
time. The big slide near the tunnel
almost put as off the map as far as out
side communication goes.
Wm. Stage and wife who have been
spending a couple of weeks on the
Sound, returned home Saturday. Mr.
Stage drove his car over and he says
the roads are in good shape.
A number of apple growers are plan
ning on starting to pick the first of
next week. As the season is late this
year it will be but a short time before
th» rainy sc«son comes.
Dr. Saunders received a large apple
grader this week. Mr. Saunders has
built a large apple shed this summer
with a full basement. He expects to
<>. n»ali«h«&«c—hißC- mv.-be- -hats*.^
to take care of his large apple crop.
Export Apples Moving in Large Quantities
A New York dispatch of the 19th
; states that exports for the week ending
Sept. 16, from all american ports, total
ed 10,151 barrels against 9,599 barrels
. (or the tame week last year. ; *'
