TODAY'S PRICES
- hi t.ink rot ;at" Mil 11 tr T
HOME EDITION
HEATHER FORECAST.
El ri and wrt Tevai, fair. New
Mrxiro. fair. Arizona, fair.
-ATESTNEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COPY FIVE CENTS
EL PASO. TEXAS. FRIDAY EVENING. SEPTEMBER 12, 1916.
.ELT r.KT.n ''.HV-n-r. ir V MONTH
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
EW YORK PREPARES FOR MOB RIOTS
o
"TRfinR IRC aBUUDBUE
!.E,J,,ii'H'TIEIIT
1 TT I b I n 1 1 i i
Steamer From Tampico
Brings News Of Villisla
Raid In Oil District.
BRITONS SHELTER
OFFICERS; SLAIN.
Carrancistas Put Up Hard
Fight But Are Over
powered, Says Report.
GLES
r:rmsi
r t..-r
LESTON, Texas. Sept 22. Two
uish subjects were taken from
home and shot and 36 of a
. . w 00 iarranza soldiers were
1 Hod in a raid September 1. on an
' la Oil comjian camp near Tux-
I n i liir h. .1.111.. 11. . . .
I U i-ta according to a report brought
1 -r i'. day by the steamer Topila from
"r r p.,..,.
The Carrancistas put up a hard fight.
i v. s said, but were outnumbered and
.-Lowered. Two of the Carranza
r -ts took refuge in the house of
--r.irlishm.n. Thei were discovered
I a-H i ut to death and tie Lnglishmen
i ' -J for hating gis-ri thrtn shelter,
1 t ,'uri adds.
Hughes Tells Instructions
Taken to Mexico By Lind,
President's Agent.
Richmond, Ind.. Sept. 22 John Ian I
the president's personal representative
in Mexico during Huerta's time, bore
to Mexico a warning that Huerta must
te ousted, according to Charles Evans
Hughes. Republican nominee for the
presideno. in a speech here Thursday
night. He said the administration did
not deal with small states in the same
spirit as with large ones.
"I have only recently received this
authentic information of the actual in
structions that were given with re-
TEAICF CAVCTP
A Bk JTkjLdkJJLi IJa 1 y 1 JL
mniTiPii TBI
Bniiian m
FRENCH
REPOR
lOIlIIS ASSERTS KILLS
EVINO
iRTYSUPPORT
Unsuccessful Candidate for
Nomination Pays Tribute
t'o Bursum.
m GITIIRIE SMITH.
Santa Rosa, N. 1L. Sept. 21. An im
passioned plea for support of the Re
publican ticket, national and state, was
made in the meeting yesterday by Se
ct.ndio Romero, of Las Vegas, who was
a candidate for the nomination for gov
ernor. His commendation of Holm O.
Bursum. the successful candidate for
the nomination, was particularly strong
O. A. Larrazola. of Las Vegas, also
Joined the expedition in the invasion of
IT
spect to the government of Mexico. 1 Guadalupe county. Mis entire aciaress
such ae Mexico had then." Mr. Hughes (was devoted to the president's mistakes
eaid. "John Lind was authorized by
the executive to state this proposition
to a minister of another government,
namely: "Huerta wil be put out if h
does not rt out. The purpose of the
president is that it be accomplished
by domestic means if possible but that
if it canont be done by domestic means,
other means adequate for the purpose
wm ue reported to.
No Hani In True Policy.
Mr. Hughes added:
"There is no basis for that in the
recognition of the sovereignty of our
neighbor. There is no basis for that
in a true and correct American policy.
We departed from an American policy
and left our citizens to suffer from
the barbarity which resulted when
goernment was destroyed and an-
arch was supreme in Mexico. It is
a deplorable situation."
The -Full Dinner Pall."
In one address at Delphi, today. Mr.
Hughes referred to "full dinner pla
cards" pasted on billboards at Lafay
ette by Democrats.
"As I was going through the streets
of Lafayette." Mr. Hughes said. "I saw J
a mmriQlti sla.rwt ti-hioh Iia.! T.aa.
lowed by Bursum. Hubbell, Hernandez
mytiic-Ti nlsMnl sx-h.nl. ...! v.,,.., ""-" "- . smst ejirrvnw i jn-
The raid is supposed to have been put up by our friends on the other side! I "VhJ.T .2?" "JX","- "fllf
tonight the candidates will speak at
Alamo.
. -n n 'b
In whi'-h the environs of
" "Pico were said to have been at
t id by Villistas presumed to be
i 3-x c jmmand of Gen. Carrera Torree.
Te r rct news of the encounter said
t -Edits were driven off after hard
I " -g.
Ill PILE!
ST STANDSTILL
Commissioners of Mexico
Scatter for Weekend; Vil
la Attack Is Delay.
" w London, Conn.. Sept. 22. The
j Xmeiican Joint commission to-
' .i'I-i concluded its work for
s we. k A majority of the commie
t li he out of town tomorrow
a' ' 't is expected the conferences will
t sjn-ed until Monday.
r'n Pani. of the Mexican commls
r -- Is In New York today. Luis Ca
1" h- d of the Mexican commis-
exp cts to leave for New York
tw- jflt and Ignacio Bonillas. the third
7 ' r-.s planned to be In Boston
t - Trow.
Mlla Ittack Delaya Plana.
" ttie renewed activity of Villa
I Luahua probably will delay an
c- r e-.r on some plan of border con-
1 -s iak-n by the Mexican commis-
as a matter of course. The
ans hope to place before the con
e f.f f i. lal reports from their gov--.e-t
which will serve as s. K.l.
' c argument uiat ine
nu reported shortly after! "ntt P,ard bore this statement: -Xo
iuic tucti. rieatj in tvvrn. js. lull
diuner pall.'
"I thought: what an extraordinary
tribute to the memories of American
voters. How was It In 1914 and In the
early part of 1915. after the passage
of the Underwood bill? Was there
plenty of work? Were there no idle
men Were there full dinner pails?"
Mr. Hughes again declared for the
protection of American rights includ
ing !ies. property and commerce.
"We re for Tnlted Mate.
"We are not here for this nation or
fnr that natiAn nr fnv tif oiri. n.
! that side eo far as I am concerned.
flSlTSM
S
Vigorous Campaign Against
Villa Men Promised By
Carranza Commanders.
VILLA HIMSELF IS
STILL IN HIDING
Followers Said To Be Dis
heartened By Failure To
Tae Chihuahua City.
CHIHUAHUA C1TV, ilex Sept. 2i
Commenting on the report in
.American newspapers, attributed
to Brig. Gen. George Bell. Jr., at El
I'aao. Texas, of the Villa raid upon
this city last Saturday. Gen. Jacinto
Trevino. commanding the Carranza
army of the north, today issued a
statement to the Associated Press in
which he described it as "a tissue of
lies and falsehoods."
"1 am at a loss to understand where
Gen. Bell obtained such bad informa
tion. " he said. "The Villistas carried
abeolutely nothing away with them
the meeting until nine oclock. Romero I except some of the prisoners fmh ik.
made the opening address and was fol- penitentairy. many of whom h.r. .i-.
returned here. They captured neither
ammunition, cannon nor anything else.
"Our artillery drove the Villistas
out of the palaces, which they had
in handling the situation with respect
to Mexico. His arraignment of the ad
ministration policies was scathing. He
received the biggest ovation of any of
the speakers and there was close atten
tion during the 45 minutes that he
spoke.
Other San Miguel county citizens with
the party are- CoL M. M. Padgett. John
II. York. Fidel Ortiz. P. O. Blood. Ches
ter A. Hunker.
Big Audience at Anton Chlro.
Coming across from Las Vegas in au
tomobiles the first stop was made at
Anton Chlco. where the hall was crowd
ed with a demonstrative audience. The ',
order of speakers was Frank A. Hub
bill, Benigno C Hernandez. Secundio
Romero and Holm O Bursum. O. A.
Larrazola. A second meeting was held
late in the afternoon at Colonias.
More than 56 people were unable to
secure seals at the meeting in the court
house here last night, although the can
didates did not get in in time to begin
LONDON. Eng.. Sept. ?? The Brit
ish advanced on a front of about
a mile last night in the Somme
sector, south of the Ancre river. The
war office announced today that two
lines of hostile trenches had been cap
tured. 'During the night we advanced on a
front of about a mile," the statement
says, "capturing two lines of hostile
trenches, approximately between Flers
and Martinpuich
.Many German Killed.
"Our front now runs approximately
I E S cBT & BBB
ETITHIS;
EONS SLAUGHTER FDES
on a direct line north of Flers and
Martinpuich.
"The enemy's trenches were success
fully entered Thursday night south of
Arras, prisoners being taken and many
casualties inflicte-1 North of Neu
ville St. Vaast a mine was blown up
by us and the crater occupied."
Artillery Mi German Ituab.
German infantry advancing in waves
made renewed efforts this morning to
beat back the French from positions
recentlv captured north of the Somme.
The official announcement today says
the attacks were broken by French
artillery hefore thf Germans reached
the French lines, compelling them to
retire to their own trenches after sus
taining heay losses
TEUTONS BREAK IKIER'SIPS
INLINE; ISDESEKTL?
I
Labor Leaders Are Told
Mayor Will Use Powers
To Curb Disorders.
UNIONISTS MEET
TO MAKE PLANS
The Bulgarian and German J Reviews Troops Near Firing
Forces Drive Back the
Russians.
Berlin. Germany. Sept. 22. The Bul
garian and German troops under field
Line Frequently, But
Gives No Notice.
Behind the Somme Front. Jept. 2.
There never was a time when so little
Will Vole On Whether Or
Not Gigantic Sympathetic
Stride To Be Called
N
EW YORK. Sept 22. Repeated
threats of a great general strike
to help the striking street car
i employes caused all branches of ths
city government charged with enforc
ing the laws to prepare today for out-
Old Cannon, War Relic,
Booms Welcome Which
Nearly Deafens Hughes
marshal von Mackensen have driven j was known of the kaiser's movements
back the Russians and the Rumanians i as at presert. WTien he decides upon
In Dnbrtldia in disorder, the war office . a trin to some noint on the front. It 13
announced today. The victory was ; kept as secret as possible, and if ever J breaks ot mob violence.
gained by an encircling counter attack.
Desperate fighting betweeB the -An-tro-Germans
and the Russians in the
Carpathians continues. The summit of
Skotreo. which has changed hands sev-
renorte.l In the German oress is de- I -Mayor -nucnei s notice tnat Be stood
layed until the royal visitor Is far j ra invoke all the civil and alH
away perhaps on the other aide o' "" power at his command to suppress
the empire. It is believed emperor j disorder was followed today by greater
William visits the front more fre- J Police activity and a warning that jvr-
eral times, has again been captured J quently than any other ruler. sons convicted of engaging in strike
from the Germans by the Russians. I Recently correspoDdt8 visiting the I Mots would receive heavier punishment.
. . . Mtn -. . . . . ,. . I .AiltV..B II ! Ill II Af tltA QfMMIMJfc 1 WlH 1 11. :.. J . .. ..-.. ..
Munice. Ind.. Sent. 2? Charles E.
Hughes's second day in Indiana was a j a" Prisoners examined by him agreed
day of many short stops, whisking tnat Villa's band did not number more
into towns and out. with station J than 600; that there were no defec
crowds, braes bands, brief rear plat- tion from the garrison and that all nr
taken, and pursued them In their hiit ! Si? tnday"a official statement Further . southern section of the Soninia front j The police department toW the trac-
.-. .... .. " I "'! r. . . ' AtA -not- learn antil well Dast mMfisfht . .
.:... ci wm aneii, leaving them no
time to carry anything away as they
left, galloping in email groups through
the narrow streets of the town."
'o Motor Cara Loat.
Gen. Trevino asserted that even
unit of his force was coordinated, that
Russian attacks on Babaludowa, were
repulsed.
SERVIAN TR00PSPRESS
ura um .ca.n inui wen t.i m.. .... ,. ,i ,..,. .. ,.
that the emperor at 9 oclock on the " "". --""" '"
morning of the day just break ir jr. tablisn sight service as soon as they
would review as many of the troops as were ready, under assurance of ade
cooW be assembled at a .joint a few -
rnouADn to tidd'UI .' mues oacx irom me iisntmg, out smi i -
tUKVYAKU IV URDntH within sound of the cubs. ! 6700 Police on Guard.
Thus far S70 policemen hae been
Along the chance to see some manenverinc- that d'POl at strategic points. This po-
the region of would have done credit to first line llc guard Includes a patrol of 58 into.
Paris. France. Sept. 22 Today's off i- Tae correspondents were on hand be
-1-1 ..... I .., .i .i. " "" lliuie nuiv luin nu
If I am entrusted with executive re- form addresses and hand shaking. Into the automobiles in h -i... -sponsibility.
I shall, to the utmost of i the day's program were crowded 12 !1, Jy ? . 3re aC"
2 e-
would stand like a rock for that Drin-
dple. which labor and all citizens must
cherish. If we are going to go forwarJ.
and have peace and prosperity in the
United States."
An anxious engineer, eager to make
up lost time, started to pull the special
train at Logansport before Mr. Hughes
had finished. The nominee stopped hl
talk and waved his hand to the con
ductor. "No." he shouted. "Wait a minute,
don't go yet, I have a word more to
eay."
argument that the attack on I Mr. Hughes held the train five mln-
. i .a. .s not a true indication of I utes to finish his talk on the Adam
g - -ninfs inability to maintain ! on Iw-
I . . 'is the frontier. Thursday the '
(-- -,. rented nothing more than i DDnuinmnuiCTC ADC
a. " f nf-,s.ii; from Andres Garcia. ! u
'U' at E' Paso, asserting that "all
Is "ra".juil n Chihuahua."
Accept Bell Report as Authentic.
bs- e T am official reports' to the nom,nee declared here Thursday that
J t jo co" rniseioners, have accented n'8 party was for peace, enforced b-
Veifc Gen Bell's account of the a wor'l police force, and Ira Landrlth.
1 r
short speeches. The 13th will be de- """ """ ana were used in the
llvered at bouth Bend tonight- i ' gnting to dispose government troope.
At Newcastle, the first stop. Mr. none be in it carried nir k- .v .
Hughes spoke briefly on the tariff. Ac ,' :K carried away by the out
Anderson, where the especial was laws- Government artillery fire was
switched to another railroad line, the ! nly ceased, he said, when the bandits
nominee left the train and made a fcad been repulsed and there sem.srt
tnTe'naien? TibTSKSMw?'' I ? SS SWot tHo f-r tUng the pursuing forces
"If I were the executive of this an '? cannon inai saw campaign Mr- .-i wi. luunos.
country, and any question were ,-'- t Y'l"'"ih'""' '- '! In Mot.,.
t-eftinli tn mi htt tnl1 the rnvctl UT 1 .""""i . ... ... u ...i. ...... ,
my powers, maintain American rights
, on land and sea, throughout the world,
t with respect to all nations. I stand
here for the rights of Americans,
square to the world."
Aasnlla Adapison Lin.
Tn his address Thursday. Mr. Hughes
Wabash. "I should say:
"Why we will have the entire force
stopped.
Hugnee
which nearly deafened
Mr . Francisco Villa and his small
The front of the court house personal following are annnuj ,tm
of public opinion directed to the Just j $ J ' flK! JSl, W ! to be la S.erra de la Slila. near im
setfiement Pf this, promptly and thor- Sn'oo'i.hTs SivISS Sta Ysabel. Chihuahua, but thl PP,1L
ougniy. accoramg to justice anu
equity.'
"Would Stand for Principle.
"But if anybody says that this has
got to be done and the principle of
arbitration must oe surrenaerea i
Struma front
Doiran lake there has been the cus- troops In peace time. On the dot ot mobiles and 100 motorcyclists along
tomary artillery fighting. Between the ' 2"" J mp.a5L" .fXT-" llt ' ost exposed car routes.
river Vardar and the river Cerna a j was formerly a back yard on an ancient Trade union leaders, representing
violent Bulgarian attack upon Zborsky chateau. They formed three sides of j aoout 7M.0M workers, met this after
was subjects to a -.-K-1-.nr check, . .fj'-btr.nlin":' StvTth. l "" l 'SSUe a Ca
In the region of he Broda river , officers. ! tor a general strike. Some of the la-
Servian troops, continuing their for- j Knlaer Cornea in Automobile. I bor leaders said such a strike If or-
ward march, penetrated as far as the ' Half an hour after the appointed , dered, would becin Mondav or Tn.i
Immediate vicinity of Urban! About time the Kaiser arrived in a leanTgny d, itonaay or Tues-
1M prisoners were captured by the ', automobile. He sprang from the car ' '"
Servians. with the vigor of a voung man. He ' Warning to Labor Leaders.
"North of Fiorina, an attack of the , wore the helmet of a general of fnfan- ' Labor leaders were Hn r-s,i
enemy was broken by the fire of the try. but the tall boots, coming in front w., 171TZ.. f T
French infantry Our troops cleaned high above the knee, of a cuirras.er. warnlnB- or mayor Mitchel Thursday
up all the ground northwest of Arren- j He cast from his shoulders the long I n'Kht that be would employ the "full
sko and made progress following some gray cape with a fur collar, in which ' civil and mill tare nowers" cnnf.ee.
and 1 were all torn down early this morning
anil , .A .1.- ...i......... ....i..::. i.a
.tuu mien iue iiuiuiiicc dinicu o
front of the building wa coered witl
Hughes posters.
GIRL TELLS OF KILLING HAN
AFTER BIRTH OF CHILD
larger part of hie forces has scattered
in various directions. A vigorous pur
suit has been undertaken bv trooi
under command of Gens. Maiia I
severe fighting upon the heights which ' he is shon in his favorite nicture.
dominate the road from Fiorina to ; and with a stride of lona stens. lifting
j each foot high from the ground, he
walked toward that end of the forma
RESIDENTS OF GREEK TOWN t U" ere the h..nd stood. His stand-
nuivr fltlT TUr rvcuir'iAfc ar(' bearers, who alwavs walk behind
"""" wm "- ui-ribinLj with his flag, had their
upon him by law to prevent disorders
if the threatened general strike of
trades unionists Is called.
Combination Boycott and Strike.
Prior to entering into conference with
work cut nut !
Athens. Greece. Sept. 22. Further Lor tnem " n strode ahead. At first 5 national and local union leaders this
Ramos. Jose Elizondo. Marrero and , "" in Greek Macednia. where a general in command, bowed and saluted ! aIlernoon" committee of five strike
CoL Zuazua. and it Dromisea onrcaartii . revolutionary movement has been in to other officers, and then turned down ! orKaniers announced the plan of ac-
loia. Kans, t-ept. r:. on tne witness i results. progress for some time, were reported JUB "ne "' wa'Ked one attempt- "on wnich. it was stated, would be
stand of the district court here Thurs-
ikv Tiihr KterpnB anfiwereH a pilar!
of having murdered Clifford Kistner. I healed.
Gen. Trevino-- wound i, nractlclv ?J- r2tS'!L .Jinan' ia stSl keen X"t,rLXi:' 2 t ? the conference. Union
, ..... - - i ...-. v avmi; i.ww iiiiiaDiiaiiis. aa .rr r. ... -j -j
Emotional iiitanity is the defend
Miss Stevens told of her acquaint
ance with Kistner two years a?o, how
he had made love to her and promised
He has discarded the slinir
for his arm and is right on the iob
day and night
Of the dispersed Villistas. one por-
. miles southeast of' Monastort. says 'the wl'5 great high steps,
i Gr.aV ,i-i ati.A,.fi.. ,...- 1 A -. After making the re
FOR WORLD POLICE FORCE
Fresno. Calif. Sept 22. J. Frank
Hanly. the Prohibition presidential
the vice presidential candidate. aaM
the prohobitionists would make the
whole country dry and use every gov
ernmental force to keep it that way.
"The Prohobition partv," Hanlv said
here, "stands for a world court Surelv
i the awful cataclysmic disaster now on
ONE GETS 50 YEAR SENTENCE ' I" E,ur(s?e ,ou5nt to maie. "e h"m?,n
r -g of Chihuahua city bv villa.
T- s-2s on of this report took up a
large prt of the American commis-
:e-"S time at tne conference today.
RAIDING VILLISTAS TRIED;
to marry her. Later she appealed to j tion under the socalled Gen. Uribe. was
him by letter to help her. but the let- ! seen on the man . n ..,..-
tcrs never were answered. On the birth told ranchers he was tborourhlv 5ia
of a child, she testified she left the in- illusioned. and was absolut.lv rti
fant on the door step of a rich cattle- gusted with the failure at Chihuahua
man. I City, as Villa had promised them an
Miss Stevens wept as she denied any J easy capture of the town with the
ICVSUCS.WVI1 wi wic mimiK wi zvisiner. a "el ul cue pevpie inside. all the nro-
Monday morning unless nrh.e en.a-
of transportation than the transit roads
affei ted by the present strike is pro
vided for them This plan was de
scribed as a combination hnvrnt .
1 strike
child in the arms of a sepctator. which
the dejenaant testixieo. was born to her
and Kistner. was brought to the atten
tion of the Jury by Miss Stevens's at
torney as a uramatic close to his appeal.
AGED MORRISON'S LAWYER
HELD ON PERJURY CHARGE
visions they could loot from the stores
afJ that every man could take his
iiis.es mi vs uineci ana girls.
Disappointed tl.oot Loot.
This is supported by tales of all
ranchers from Santa Ysabel and San
Andreas district, many of whom cams
close to town with wazons to carry
off the expected loot These say that
the failure of Villa Dearsonall,- i ,,n
R-1 tuljthK town' his act of remainns
Chicaero. I1L. SeDt 22. James
Ward, attorney for Edward W Mor : outside the danger zone while his fol
rison. an alleged millionaire bankrupt
was ordered held to the grand Jury by
federal Judge Landis today on a charge
of perjury.
Ward has come into possession .if
$2.10ft,000 of property owned by Mor-
A --e Texas. Sept 22. Villa bandits We also stand for a world police force i f-l"0'0,0 Speow.?1?? by Mor"
Tr, r,-t -cipated in the Glen Springs Preat enough to enforce the decree of J ,n- "f" , ?, .l?.f, "'i1'?"8. ihaI!
a- b nuias rams ana were captured,
v 1 se-ie terms in the Texas peniten
t i One Mexican named Torrez, who.
it s charge'! was a member of the
-idmg parij. has been given SO years
J- trie penitentiary Natividad AI
v ez, against whom there are seven
ts, j-ges was tried on one charge, rob-te-y
with fire arms. The Jury stood
e irbt for hanging and four for life Im-v-
Eorment Yjmo Garcia, held on a
t rr 12- charge, is being tried. Alvarez.
it s alleged, di'ected the Glenn Springs
that great International court
hour has come when war It not made
impossible, should be put beyond th
power of one or two men in the "world
U instigate It"
SB.V.VTOR REED ATTACKS
ATTITUDE OF nCCllE
Springfield, 111, Sept 22. In a Dem
ocratic rally here, senator James A.
Reed of Missouri. Thursday attacked
the atitude of Charles E. Hughes on the
lowers were slaughtered like sheep,
with the failure of the attack, has
helped to destroy confidence mnn0-
his supporters in the country districts
where he was ."ormerly regarded as th
Idol and saviour of the poorer classes.
Prisoners say that Villa's ini.ntmn
Tnfi i been a subject of inquiry before Judge , was primarily to surround the thea-
amiiiuib. ssri aiisi fsui sjeii x revino ana nis stall
Joseph Burnstein. a Junk dealer, re- on the night of the 15th In order to
puted father of two girls Morrison re- ; disorganize the garrison, but that the
cently adopted, also was held to the . continual rain impeded their arrival
grand Jury on a charge of perjury . sufficiently to disorganize their plans.
Burnstein had testified that his wife I Strnnir Outposts Established.
inaue a. ueaui nea coniession mat tne Ctrnni- nfi. .i.s. . .
, M year old millionaire was the real "Vll""!:.
rather of the two iHrls I r -" " " TF ": ouunsncu
Ward's bonds were fixed at Jli.000
and Burnsteln's at J5000.
heads would notify snon fnr.m.n
Greek civil authorities have ben re- ', 7!a,"S the rounds of three union employe, to nxle?NwV v
moved from office by the inhabitants. " f' ' ihe.!?rf ne. '"Peror turned 2nd ;VSSr eoST'ln 57.1!
xne ponce chief and Maj. Karapanos. f"" ""?" '" '"- ' 'r ' cn.u witn . mvolved would retnim to . -. it
this mil. tars- n-r-r .,, , !. the various high officers aathered ,. iBa woul retuso to go to work
of the 31st regiment ' of the line are there and then began to pin orders and
said to have Joined the uprisings. I n,edaI on th breasts of the chosen
JTAI.I ts Otl GROUND II was onlj at the conclusion of this
DKM'ITIi ItD "WHITHER' (Continued on pare z. Cot S.)
Rome. lUly. Sept 22 Italian troops
have made further progress on the
Trentino front the war office an
nounced today.
"Persistent bad weather again inter
fered with the activity of the troops
Thursday throughout the whole theater
of operations." the statement says.
"Nevertheless, some further attacks
were repulsed and we advanced at the
head of Vanci Clscom valley and
toward the summit of Monte Siefe. in
the upper Cordevale.
"Hostile batteries shelled Gorizla
without doing any harm."
eg. d aci was in command of the raid- i Adamson eight hour bill, declaring It
inff party. was not the first time Mr. Hughes had
Ho was formerly a colonel in the , shown his favoritism to the railroads.
V 11a army. , He also declared Hughes, when gov-
ernor, vetoed a two cent fare MIL a
MEDIC 4X COHP MAJOR TO full crew bill and a five cent street car
TVATCII MOTOR AMBULANCES are DHL
Mai Percy I Jones, of the armv
edioal corps, has been ordered to El
Taso from Fort Sara Houston to ob-
Bf -ve the automobile ambulances in
ue here and at Columbus, N. M.
Maj Edward D. Anderson, of the
BRYAN PRAISES "WILSON".
Cheyenne. Wyo, Sept 22. Wm. J.
Bryan, addressing a large audience
I here Thursday night praised the rec-
ora ot president wnson and the Drao-
here as a protective ring against any
(Continued on Page 4, Column 4.)
ih caialry. has been ordered to eratit- niiniinictratinn an. it.i.i.mj it,.
-peir before the board at Washington j Wnson's record was better than that ! Gila Land and Water comapny, east of
or examination for promotion. 1 of Hughes on woman suffrage. I here. I
SON OF BANKER KILLED
IN STORE AT GILA BEND
Gilu Bend. Ariz . Sept 22 As the re
sult of a quarrel. Eucene Caruthers. son
of the president of the First National j
bank of Yuma, was shot and killed here !
late Thursday Russell T. Johnson. I
manager of the Gila Valley Land and I
Water company, was taken Into custody j
and removed to Phoenix. I
The shooting occurred in the E. G I
carumers s store.
Caruthers had controled a large cat-
ue raocn aujoining tne property of the
INTLBKATIONAL SOIL
TPliBBKI5 UFHSIffil
i
n
cc
Sr- 2
S
uiS
ifiz
IS"
for
EL PASO
TEXAS
OCTOBER jS-4
A TO 26 W.q
1916 52
OPEHIKC OF THE iVJl!
DENIES Hl'NGAHI.VN IIIGI1T
GIVEN OVER TO GERMANY
Amsterdam. Holland. Sept 22. Count
Michael Karolyi. president of the Hun
garian independence party, speaktngin
the Hungarian diet toda. formally
asked the Hungarian premier whether
ine King or Hungary had abdicated
his sovereign rishts to the German em
peror. according to a Budapest dis
patch to the Tijd.
Premier Tisza. the dispatch adds, re
plieo that the king of Hungary fully
retained his sovereign rights
MADBRO'S WAR MINISTER.
AIIKE!TKD AT MATA5IOROS
Brownsville. Texas. SeDt. it No
cause is known here for the arrest of i
EL PASO DAY AT PECOS FAIH PROVES
TO BE BANNER OAY OF THE WEEK
P"
be taken again to the fair grounds.
75?TZ5 F'"1 Pfram closing the
fair will be giTen in ,heJr honor
Paso day at the Reevea conntv
fair drew the banner attendance
of the week. Twenty El Pasoans ar
rived during the night on a special
Pullman, which was set out at the
station.
The party was met this morning by
a delegation of Pecos business men
consisting of T. Y. Casey, president J.
D. Love. W. H. Browning:. Jr.. and T.
B. Pruett
.... VK nmeniuus oetween tne ch:
servea at me orient hotel, the El Paso- i commerce of the two towns, which
ans were taken for an automobile ride uuwuy linKea IB a commercial
over the irrigated section of the Pecos '0"ty peoB business men do a heavy
valley of Texas, including Barstow fno'esato trade he and there Is mucS
Toyahvale and Balmorhea. and then to , 3L'i I?1""., $. two S?tles- Pco3
the fair grounds. I valley is expected to send one of the
Just to remind the Pecos valley folk
that El Paso Is still the capital of the
southwest, an enthusiastic party of
El Pasoans left Thursday night ove
the Texas & Pacific for Pecos, where
they will be the Mr feature of the fair
at that point
After breakfast had been T-XKZrLZZZ:i SFSH5!
Angel Garcia Pena. sr, minister of war The E1 Pa delegation is made up the farn, Vn..s?i. e .delEtions to
in the Madero cabinet and his sen! , follows. Peyton Brown. R, J. De helde to XftoW exPslUon t
no. are reported to have been seized Carson. W.H.Shelton.Gorg? R Le - "xh. 7S?Jm ?S2e5l.
ELEPHANT BUTTE DAM
w
in Matamoros and sent to the peni
tentiary at Monterey. Mexico.
The elder Pena came here a few
days ago from Florida and intended
making a trip across northern Mexico
to his ranch property in Sonora.
HOSTILE TRANSPORT IS
SUNK BY GERMAN U-BOAT.
Baron. W. C. HeDburn. Wm u.ir.n.i.
G. T. Moore. Manuel Schwartz. Walter
Arnold. J. M. Proctor. J. X. Clements.
J. F. Bauragarten. J. L. Jacobs. J. D.
Bukey. Charles P. Walker. Carl White.
George H. Clements, and U F. Silver
sparre. The delegation was Joined here by
H. Lasalle. and Mr an,l "Ue. u..
Tfa.ttn r?A. O . ,e. . .T-. . i- - ..'"- " '
ua...i. uQiiiiwij, oaiis. i., my wire- : -sfs-tsa, iciuriiing rom lianas bv auto
leas to Sayvilfe.) The admiralty J mobile
announced today that a hostile trans- J El Pasoans are to he guests of honor
port was sunk In the Mediterranean on I at a dinner tonight at T oclock aVT.1
September 17 by a German submarine. l at the conclusion of the dinner will
The nartv will Lava "p..n thin .s.n
ng. arriving to Bl Paso Saturday
morning.
Adtertlao Exposition.
George R. LeBaron is distributing
thousands of invitations to the people
of the Pecos valley to attend the In
ternational Soil Products exposition
here in October. These invitations
were recently prepared by tha exposi
tion management, setting forth the
attractions to store for visitors. Mr
Le Baron is one of the El Paso party
attending El Paso day at the Pecos
fair.
c .1
st Will Not Let Home -Going Guardsmen Res
f$
ur
- ra. v
rtiirrxxAT&k
st --
v t
v V 2f
w
th
