n'i' lIJ.I i|l
IF_of TTTTTr <• >,
.V/ f, ii fi v~riiTT Wftwiwflr ■■ Mrt.t A/ I S£) I
TffEl-FTH YEAR. No. H
ORDINANCE NO. 76
An urdiname regulating and 11. easing
...,1111 business ami eu.p •> meins lit the
of Oruville. Washington. regulating
maimer ot Issuing and timistering
lenses providing pel.«.lie.- lor Ibe vio
unon of nils ordinal;, e and repealing
BkN Nos. and and
il orillnam es or pans of idm.uKes in
~n[!iil with this "in: n e.
ordained by Uit u*\'n oouuoii ot
town of OroViUe.
Section I.—That m firm, com
mhv or corporation - ... engage In.
Moseciue or .any on a ... trade, business
at profession within i.■ limns ot the
uwn ol Oruville nu 101 l a lb ense is
JLuire.l by this ot dinar. e unlii be or
[JJv shall have obtained .. license there
*°Lctioii !.—That evety person, firm,
uassny or corporation iciuired by this
ordinance to obtain a ense to engage
In iiir trade, business or profession tor
which a license is retailed shall pa. to
the town treasurer ot - tid town of Oro
ville the sum or sums required by tins
ordinance to be paid therefor, the appli
ont shall take the d..p.i. ate receipt of
the town treasurer wi. h receipt shall
iet forth the kind ot trade business or
mwtessloii tor which the license is te
aulred, and upon the presentation of the
said receipt the town clerk shall issue
tie required license to the applicant.
Seetion I—That each and every license
issued under the provisions of tins ordi
nance shall state the purpos. traile. busi
ness or profession for wr.idi such license
iigranted. the name d the person, com
ply ar corporation taK - out the same,
tie date ot granting - i . lb .-use and the
time for which such license is granted, all
licenses granted under the provisions of
tilt ordinance shah be posted In plain
light In the room where me said trade,
business or profession 1- arrled on. and
peddlers or hawkers must have licenses
issued to them upon their person when
engaged in trade, bus. :.*>s or f rofessi- .1
tor which such license is issued.
Section 4. —Any pei- .u. linn, company
or corporation who holds a license for tiie
earning on of any trade, business or pro
fession under tins ordinance who shall
transfer his or their business to some
other person or localU> maj have such
license transferred t*» .said j»er»on or lo
ctliiy by making application to the town
council at any regular meeting thereof,
giving reasons for such transfer and sat
isfactory evidence that the transfer has
or will be made, and the council may or
der the said license transferred
Set lion .‘..—The town council shall have
the right at any time t*» revoke any li
v-ense issued under the provisions of this
ordinance and all such licenses are grant
ed and issued upon the express condition
that the town conn- ii may revoke them
it my time and any mearned portion of
any license that may be revoke*l by the
wwn council shall be forfeited to the
town.
Section 6.—The li< en.«e fee per quarter
for conducting f" when
pool or billiard tables, bowling alleys, ten
pin alleys and shooting gallery* are kept,
shall be as follows; billiard or pool table,
first table. 13.50. each additional table
Combination pool and billiard table
$3.50 for each table. Bowling or ten pin
alky* first alley s*. '•«■ e.o h additional
alley S3OO. shouting gallery #1 00 |>er day
m ,U*.iW p*r year
Section 7. The license fee for moving
Seture house or show shall he as follows;
wing picture house $40.«»•• per year
payable quarterly In advance, street show
exhibition slo.*>o per day. circuses
117.00 per day. Ferris w heel or* merry-go
round $5.00 per day. Traveling show,
where admission is .’*•»< or less |1.50 per
day. where admission is over soc, U..v>
per day. Provided that n<* show or exhi
bition in connection with the sale of drugs
Jewelery, optical goods or other merchan
dise shall operate in anv licensed picture
house or theatre until they have pro
cured a license for the sale of the s \ld
merchandise as provided for in other
sections of this ordinance- and further
provided that no license shall be required
for shows given by home talent or when
given for the benefit of home public insti
tutions.
Section 8. The license fe*- for peddling
clothing dry goods. wearing apparal.
drugs, jewelery. household furniture or
utensils or other articles that may be
peddled from house to house or on the
public streets or places within the limits
w the town of Oroville shall be |lo.(K* per
day or portion thereof.
Section y. That every person, firm,
company or corporation engaged in the
business of collecting, buying, selling or
exchanging old Junk, bottle- nigs, paper,
•crap iron, brass, lead, copper, castings,
wire, filings or pipe, tools «»r Implements
wcond hand clothing or other like articles
J*5 V# been previously used rlr broken
«r disfigured shall be deemed a Junk
shall pay a yearly license fee
w flw»00 payable quarterly, each appll-
JJJt 'or junk dealers license shall state
jne exact location where such business is
Ji-rf ca^ e on - every junk dealer shall
UJP- H hoo*f in which shall be plainly
n English language at the
e y er >’ purchase an a* curate dis
nam on ¥ article pun based and teh
name and general discription of the per
■rS Iff 01 *. w t lom BU( ‘h purchase was made
i«2!!k »•£*** arul Haj, l junk dealer’s prem
«es shall be open at all reasonable times
thA » e * nß P*clion of anv police officer of
town of Oroville
o« V* —The lit ense fee for carrying
j H* neBB °f pawn broker or second
ev»rv er shall be 15.00 per year and
»!,,/' Person, firm, company or corpora
buSnSf B *# ,n whole or in part in the
loaning money on security of
ae r ,osit s or conditional sales of
P ro h. ertv shall be deemed a pawn
r | ** shall be the dutv of every
maintoi ro « r . or und hand dealer to
or SS* ln place of business a book
It■»ssL® e r rnanent v "in which shall
timenfH ! " English language at the
eaoh ,oar ' '1 • the dale of the
. ( 2> the name of the person
narr? P ! oyee con durtlng the same. <3> the
s 2?A*. discription of the
mad* n ,T th w hom the transaction was
Dnrnart,. a, ‘ accurate discription of the
saotkin : ' /°- r > pled^re involved in the tran
amount loaned and the
nawn oi ** ° an amJ the number of any
toonra .J,. 1 Issued therefor, and such
ODin ia .* )e at all reasonable limes
Sr Af *u the in »Pe f tion of anv police offi-
V .* he t °" n of Oroville.
inen t Af n The license fee for the bus-
JL expreß<!ln K anf l draylng shall be
Uch vSkI r vear payable in advance for
bialruM.- !! ~ or "agon used in the said
!i('en«A and each vehicle shall have the
Plain* SU?5 U ?> r P ai nted or printed In
tf-rs »n n » distinct letter numbers. Ie(-
thrs*» at six Inches high and
whftp nn h f? T ,fle painted or printed in
Chicle L bar * c back ground, upon the
Imum H r w , a . KOn tor which the license is
no Pr J? V ( that any holder of a 11-
PiirrhflßA ?I 0V ‘1 fnr in this section may
la llpaW. roni the town treasurer a spec
dav or* n r- f * Qt t,u ‘ ratf * of 15 cents per
Bp«<.| a | Per week and the word
Bh a ii Ka n i *be number of the license
r " P !iln ' t " l > n Pla'n anfl
bixh sir,a lU 4?^ r Alters at least six inches
Pdnt«*i I* »*. e ln ' hes wide painted or
the7i " W| ''C "i, , red background. on
>W<iai iiJ e " r wagon working under anv
Ravine «.i nSfv rh ‘ : ' term* expressing and
(■onat?, j n us *d >" this ordinance shall
a, 00 J, ,1 to mean every person, firm
titnirnrta.'. engaged in the business <>f
, ninli POr l ’ K / 01 'm nr pay. any hniryaye
vali l o'f_7 IGr, '^and : se or other article of
•he limit ; . tny one failnt or place within
“tiler ~l* ‘ town of Oroville to any
town A» n^ or Place within the limits of the
to this L.r 0 't' 1, provided that nothlnc
to omn| S h. ( ,ll OM M,lal! ~e 1 onstrued to apply
hus«es, vehicles or waKons of ho-
HrSS“'SSr"iH' ; " r
contract for build.-.. I,- J™ d “> or
Oacl.u*. Hie xvorlls > " 11 '
oso.l in ti,|» section i. , J?“«!Ka«e ua
to include trunks ,lo,m *' d «» not
salesmen. 1 »t traveling
ordinance Xo ''' linen VIV“ 1 ' Nw “ml
No. S and ov.lu.un' \ V'> oMUnanco
N ■ .. ana «" am ordinance*
No are’ d, "* nc *
town marshal * . I’' 1 ’' tl,e
bo deemed gulltv of ' mut. ma,u '° shall
‘l vi.-fio,! ihereSf smu 'bo"Ane i"'!’'
on-, sum not less limn 110 W., - U “
than $ , ~nd the .V ’ l,or ~wr e
»as bad ahl Prosecution
lit St and seond reading. Se,„
and approved September
•R. IIIHWR C.e J rk F - BAMB ° N - Ma >“'
i uMishetl. September
COUNCIL MEETING
NN asliingion, September is, u»i(j '
l useui Mayor Samson. Council men
UtM.e Stanett and Smith. 1,1611
and approved a ß he ,eSd* V ‘° U8 meet "“>'
lii-fiis'inl; -iVi i'" ' fntiilfd an ordinance
Hid anb certain business
and emplnymetus in the town of Oroville
Sdna" I'V"; the manneVofi,!
‘ ~! 1 * llul transierrlng ~f licenses nn.
orlllinn!’? anf*, , 1 " > ' viol *“ b 'n of tl,l»
... - ,'“ ul epealin*; ordinances Nos
. ■-. ■■- and ■ .;■ and .ill ordinances in
.■mint with this ordinance," was read hy
stations and aitei ••ntjo , hamies n.ut hccn
. l 'o,; l, i Ul t ' al . T . le ‘ l tlu “ ‘he ordinance pass
u ihiui leading and be approved
n..i.e‘ S Heae ■ Sti,rre ‘‘ and Smith. Noes,
evnen.i'i’n!,"; 1 ' ‘he receipts and
liluio fur the coming vear w.^
■VnT i ip a 1.",1, 1 tlle estinate was made
and ordered published and the date of
heanntr and making the tax levy was set
' octobei ' -ml, at the hour of
i•» o dock a. m.
in T !- engineer explained progress
iskli ~ V' sh " 1K ,he grades and
‘ ,* l ‘-1I l, ‘V town council go over the
ground with him on next Thursday morn-
Ihe1 he following bills were then read and
ordered paid. (». H Major, engineering.
Jo * u, t Mitchell, engineering $1.50.
n motion the council adjourned.
E. K. HOOSE. Clerk i.
I.VKK NEWS NOTES.
Anna Held appears for the first time
upon the screen in Oroville at the
Lyric theatre next Wednesday and
Thursday evenings in “Madame La
Presidente," produced by the Oliver
Morosco company and released on the
Paramount program. “Madame La
Presidente" is one of the famous sto
ries ol French farce and has a worlf
wide reputation.
Ejected from a country town hotel
for a gay “high jinks” in the cate.
Mile Gobette of the “Pet of the Harem”
traveling company calmly presents
herself at the hones of the loca. mag
istrate who is responsible for her
homeless dilemma, and before he is
aware of it goes to bed in the bedroom
of his absent wife. The magistrate's
superior, no less a person than the
Minister of Justice, unexpectedly drops
into town on .• trip of inspection, aud
to save himself, the simplemindcd
village judge passes off Gobetto as his
wife. The minister is captivated by the
fascinating little beauty, and when the
: tory ships to picturesque Paris, .he
dual in wits between tnc terrified mag
istrate ami the shrewd ministi', each
Ic keep hi., secret mates one of tnc
ip ;s: l...ivpable situ, ficr.s in nolern
light comedy.
For next Saturday and Sunday the
Lyric has secured another of those fa
mous Mark Twain productions that
the whole world loves to see. This time
it is 'Pudd'nhead Wilson.” In produc
ing Mark Twain's famous work of
“Pudd'nhead Wilson” the Lasky com
pany presents the second of their Mark
Twain series, and we have the promise
of Manager Stoltz that that story of
all stories "Tom Sawyer and Huckle
berrv Finn" will soon follow'.
“Pudd'nhead Wilson” occupies a
unique place in the annals of Ameri
can humorous literature. Us story
said to have been the first piece of fic
tion to have made use of the now farail*
iar finger print method as a means of
establishing identity—is melodramatic,
romantic and suffused with a deep
note of human sympathy and interest,
“Pudd'nhead Wilson" was a southern
lawver from whom the book takes its
title, is a famous character in Ameri
can literature and his crisp sayings
will live forever.
RI'MMAOK MALE.
The rummage sale announced to be
held by the ladles of Trinity Guild of
the Episcopal church on next Friday
and Saturday. September 2j ami .to.
will take place in the vacant store
room in the old Peerless hotel, oppo
site the Covert block. The .alei will be
open from 10 a. m. to a p. m. A thous
and and one useful articles will he
offered for sale at a song. In addition
,o the rummage sale on Saturday even
ng from 6 to 8 o’clock, the ladies will
lerve a hot baked bean and brown
bread supper. Including also upple ple.
cheese and coffee, like your mother
makes. That is a combination of edl
bles that should appeal Btr0 "^ y t0 ‘ *
entire public, especla ly as the charg
for supper will he only 25 cents.
OROVILLE, WASHIN ITON. SEPTEMBER 22. 1916
SPECIAL TAX VOTED,
....bn "k number of Patrons of the
eld i"m UUended the meeting'
d *“ the rlgU building Sat
‘ ; af,er, toou for the purpose of dls
urns ng the advisability of levying a'
special 5 mill tax and consider other
business pertaining to the proper con
■luct of the school. The condition of the
school, the necessities and require
ments were gone into to a considerable
extent, and It was the unanimous ver
dict of those present that In order to
keep the schools up to the high standard
they have attained a special tax was
necessary. Such tax was voted. It wa.
further decided to provide transporta
tion for those scholars living In the
district remote front the school and
three routes were established, One
from Blue l.ake, and one on each side
of the Okanogan river to the south.
These transportation lines commenced
active service Monday morning and
accommodate already 36 pupils. These
children live so far from the school
that they are compelled to ride in on
horseback or in rigs, each family pro
viding a conveyance heretofore. With
the new arrangement a vehicle goes
for them in the morning and conveys
them to their homes at the close of
school. This will be especially conven
ient during the rough weather of fall,
winter and spring.
Dr Efner of Oroville, Mr. Hurley
and son, Mr, Boyd and Mr. Graham of
Loomis, passed through town on Mon
day from Granite Creek, where they
had been looking after some mining
nterests.—Hedley Gazette.
Mr. and Mrs. Win, Blonder, of St.
Paul were visitors In town Wednes
day. Mr. Blonder is connected with the
Northern Pacific immigration depart
ment and Is out on a four of the Oka
nogan country.
Last week about a dozen young men
from British Columbia passed through
Oroville on their way to enter college
ou this side of the line. Some were go
ing to Pullman, others to the Univer
sity of Seattle and still others to Berk
ley, California. ,
The old three-tlmes-a-week system
was inaugurated on the Princeton run
this week. Trains will make the round
trip every Tuesday, Thursday and
Saturday, as was the schedule prior to
the putting on of the dally service
some months ago.
The Women of Woodcraft held an
interesting reception to many Invited
guests in Odd Fellows hall Tuesday
evening. A short musical program,
dancing and refreshments made up an
entertainment that all of the partici
pants highly enjoyed.
A number of Odd Fellows went up to
Jiolson one day last week to help the
new lodge recently instituted at that
place to get off on the right foot. The
In ys of the mystic links met with a
most hospitable recepc.m and of
course had a good time.
L. L. Bair left 16 pounds of potatoes
at this office Friday last, some of the
specimens being monsters in size. Mr.
Bair stated that the potatoes were dug
from a single hill of volunteer growth
on his place just west of the school
house. The potatoes had no care what
ever, and Mr. Bair dug up the hill more
through curosity than an expectation
of finding any tubers. He was surpris
ed beyond measure not only at the
quantity of the potatoes the hill yielded
but with their extraordinary size.
H. A. Stafford, the young man who
was connected with the Woodbury
I,umber company at this place for some
lime, has been selected to Hi* the va
cancy made by the resignation of Roy
Vincent, and will be the manager of
the Farmer’s store. The company lost
a good man in the departure of Mr.
Vincent, but was very fortunate In se
curing the services of such an excell
ent successor In the person of Mr, Staf
ford. The public will find the young
man a verv pleasant Individual to do
business with, and the store will lose
none of Its prestige with the change.
Say; you taxpayers of the county,
have you any Idea how your taxes
have increased In the past six years?
We doubt if you have, and it may en
lighten you should you turn back to
your old receipts and note the steady
increase. We were shown a frightful
example of steady increase of taxes
Tuesday, when we were permitted to
look over a tax receipt that had just
been paid. The receipt was for taxes on
lot 6, block 6, Oroville. a lot that has
no Improvements on It, and the pay
ment embraced back taxes from 1910
to 1915 In 1910 the taxes on this lot
were 82 cents; In 92 cents; m
1912 $2 20; In 1913, $2.60, in 1914,
*7 95- in 1915 $10.05. This does not in
dude Interest, This seems Incredible
but there Is the tax receipt and the
money the receipt called for was paid.
It is onlv charitable to hope that some
how In some way a mistake has been
made by the assessor, but it Is an ex
pensive mistake to the man called up
on to meet the bill.
ODD FELLOWS DEGREE WORK.
A crowd of Molsou Odd Fellows de
fended upon the local Udge ot that
order Saturday night, bringing a class
for degree work. Under the direction
of District Deputy Jackson and Capt
McMahan the first degree was put on
with credit to the lodge. An elegant
supper was served at the conclusion
of the work. Those present from Mol
*on were: Claude Hanlon. Chas.
Tompkins. Win. Davis. Fred Wilkins,
H. H. Shaw. Geo, Mcafee J. \. Oliver!
John C. Graham. J C. Silence, Nick
Ward, Theo. Dimmick, Jo Johnson,
Walter Johnson. Geo. M, Winter, D, R.
McNeil and Geo. Higenbottom. From
Chesaw, Prof. H. L. Rowley and R. C.
Hirst. The Molson Odd Fellow’s have
but recently organized, and already
have a growing and healthy lodge, and
tiie members are royal good fellows.
■
AT THE ORPHEI M.
That pleasant resort and attractive
moving picture theatre, the Orpheum.
piesents the celebrated actor Robert
Edeson. as “Power.” in "The Absentee"
» thrilling symbolic drama Saturday
and Sunday evenings This is one of
the Mutual masterpieces in five parts,
and presents an Interesting and excit
ing performance In a charming setting
The Orpheum is putting on an excep
tionally high class line of films now
adays. and those who attend the per
formances enjoy a real treat. Besides
this chief dramatic feature there will
be another of those laughable Keystone
comedies that are always a nit. Six
reels in all, and every real a dandy.
« EAST ORCHARD TRACTS.
The Elberta peach harvest is now in
full blast and the fruit is fine,
I The Rev, Mr. Bean, who has been In
Alaska as a "sky pilot" for four years
was a visitor at the Cozy Corner ranch
over Sunday.
The school board has appointed J A
Spencer as truant officer. Mr. Spencer
will install a phone so as to be in
touch with the schools.
bee has made more honey
than usual this season. This is an en
couragement to the bee men on the
Tracts.
Samuel Blackler had the misfortune
to lose a valuable cow Sunday Too
much green alfalfa was the cause
(1001) ROADS MEETING.
A very important meeting of the
members of the Good Roads associa
tion will be held in the Civic League
library building at 2 o'clock Saturday
afternoon. The business to be taken up
is something in which every citizen is
vitally interested, and there should be
a full attendance of members and all
good roads boosters. Remember the
date, time and place and be sure and
be there.
This section is enjoying the most de
lightful fall weather.
The public reception tendered the
teachers of the public schools at the
M. E„ church, Saturday evening, was
largely attended and those present ex
tended to those who are to train the
young ideas during the ensuing school
year a hearty welcome to the town. An
interesting program consisting of in
strumental music and addresses was
rendered, adding to the pleasure of the
occasion. The welcomed and the wel
coming made out to put in a most en
joyable evening.
Enthusiasm lasts quick in this place.
When the fire department was reorgt i
-1/(<1 almost everybody joined and :or
i short time was zealous in attending
drills and meetings. Now it seems im
possible to secure a quorum at a meet
ing. and a drill is out of the question.
Chief McMahan is naturally disgusted
with this indifference and declares that
if more interest is not displayed with
in the next thirty days he will resign,
and that would be a real misfortune
tor the department.
■ The Escape” that is presented at
the Orpheura next Wednesday and
Thursday evenings, in its conception
and magnitude, is on a par with that
wonderful production "The Birth of a
Nation," and no one who enjoys mol
ing pictures should fall to see it. t
is not often that people of a small town
have an opportunity to see films ot tins
magnitude, and in order to encourage
the bringing in of them the Orpheum
should be crodwded next W ednesdaj
and Thursday evenings.
A number of lady friends ot Mrs. C.
p House gave her very much of a sur
prise Wednesday evening, when they
dropped in at her home carrying re
freshments, and a joviality that drove
dull care away until late in the night.
It was not altogether a duck party for
Judge Neal happened in to escort hi
wife home before the least o. pUmsm
was over and was in time to partake
of 5.e feast of good things, adding very
much to the festivities by his apt
toasts and entertaining jokes.
GRAIN BUYING.
J. A. Waldorf is to fill a long felt
want in Oroville. What has been need
ed here for a long time is a market
■where farmers could take their grain
and hay and receive in return the mar
ket price in cold cash on delivery. A
market where the buyer was prepared
to take all the produce that is hauled
in and pay for it on receipt. Mr. Wal
dorf steps into the breach and sup
plies that market. He has leased what
is known as the Farmer's warehouse,
is having the building raised and en
larged. and already is prepared to pay
the highest ruling price for grain and
hay delivered at the warehouse. The
farmers of the surrounding country
will find Mr. Waldorf a fair and square
buyer to deal with, and it Is confidently
felt that he will in time build up a
large business.
A WORTHY CHARITY.
Ensign Emma Anderson, ‘financial
representative for the Salvation Army
Home for women, at Spokane, was in
Oroville Monday soliciting funds for
that worthy institution. If there is any
one charity that should more strongly
appeal to the liberality of the public
than another it Is this admirably con
ducted Home, a refuge and shelter for
dependant woman. The Home has an
earnest and charming worker and rep
resentative In Miss Anderson, a modest
yet always cheerful, pleasant and
pleasing young member of the Salva
tion Army, an organization deserving
of the highest commendation for the
vast good it has accomplished and is
accomplishing in the darker sections
of the great cities of the land, where
church and Christian Influences would
never reach through any other source.
Miss Anderson visits Oroville and
vicinity at long intervals, and always
meets with a kind and generous re
ception.
ENJOYABLE ENTERTAINMENT.
The DeMoss family of entertainers,
one of the oldest on the road, consist
ing of Mr. and Mrs. DeMoss, a Miss
Reed, a pianist and an exceptionally
clever reader, and two DeMoss lads
not yet in their teens, gave a very
pleasant entertainment in the Orpheum
theatre to a crowded and appreciative
house last Friday evening. The pro
gram was made up of a pot pourrl of
vocal and instrumental numbers and
select readings, and the liberal ap
plause was evidence that the audience
was well pleased with the performance.
One of the lads handled the violin with
a good deal of skill, and the other is
an expert manipulator of the flute. The
boys are a whole show in themselves.
Mr. DeMoss did the seemingly impos
sible stunt of playing two cornets at
the same time, and making music, too.
If the company ever returns to Oro
ville it is assured of a cordial welcome.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Morning services at 11 o'clock; even
ing services at 7:30. Sunday school at
10 a. m. Prayer meeting Thursday at
7:30 p. m. We invite you to come to all
of our services.
A. W. BOND, Pastor
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH,
Services will be held as follows on
next Sunday September 24. Sunday
school at 10 a. m. Morning prayer
and sermon at 11 a. m. A cordial wel
come will be extended to all who at
tend these services.
REV. G. H. SEVERANCE, Vicar.
CATHOLIC SERVICES.
The Rev. Father Tritz will hold ser
vices at the Catholic church on Sunday
morning at 10 o'clock. There will also
be a lecture at 7:30 p. in., following by
benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.
One of the buildings formerly lo
cated just'east of the depot, and occu
pied by the attachees of the A. Guth
rie & Co., contracting firm during the
construction of the irrigation system
has been moved to a lot on North Van
couver street and will be fitted op as
a home by Mr. Ricketts.
The registration books are open
again and those who did not register
prior to the primary election should
do so before the ITth of October. There
are a number of voters in the three
Oroville precincts who so far have
failed to register. They should per
form that duty at once if they have any
desire to cast a ballot at the November
election.
Some freight is coming In from the
west nowadays. The train Saturday
consisted of 16 cars, seven of which
contained copper matte, coming
through from Vancouver and billed for
Grand Forks. This copper matte is
from a mine owned by the Oramby
company on the west side. If this
freight service continues a return to
daily trains will be necessary before
long.
A WELL PLEASED VISITOR.
W. S. Ramsey, of Campbell River.
Vancouver Island, accompanied by hla
wife and grand son. arrived in Orovllle
Tuesday evening Mr. Ramsey owns
ten acres in the Ellis-Forde Orchard
tracts, and is very much pleased with
the condition of the trees on ids hold*
ing. He has had experience in horti
culture and will learn the resident* of
the valley a trick or two in the way of
raising superior products when he
takes hold of his property in earnest.
To give an idea of what he can do In
the way of growing small fruits, and
knowing the best to raise, it can be
stated that this year, on his home place
on Vancouver Island, he picked TOO
quarts of strawberries from 100 vinos.
Of course this shows that he set out
a very prolific variety of berry, but he
knows what is prolific in the lines of
large and small fruits, and that Is the
secret of his success. Mr. Ramsey 1*
a very pleasant gentleman to meet and
we trust that he will take up his resi
dence upon his orchard tract and be
come a perman-m' fixture In tha valley.
K. E. McVay. of Okanogan waa a vis
itor in town Wednesday.
Attorney W. C. Gresham, of Oka
nogan, was in town Wednesday.
The republican county central com
mittee meets at Okanogan Saturday
Mrs. Christine Kreger, of Okanogan,
was registered in town Wednesday.
Jim Silverthorn of Oroville spent the
week end in Okanogan.—Okanogan
Independent.
Mrs. C. H. Brickbill, of Okanogan
was visiting with her sister, Mrs. Chas.
T. Peterson, Wednesday.
Bob Picken's majority in the county
for representative was 70. Getting in
by the skin of his teeth as it were.
Miss Tessie Masters has returned to
the girl's school at Ward, which she
has attended for a number of years.
Miss Ellen Jones, of Nlghthawk. left
Friday morning for Pullman, where
she will enter college for the ensuing
year.
Geo. D. Brown, o i Chelan Falla, who
Is engaged In grain buying, made this
office a pleasant visit last Friday
evening.
Miss Fanny Peterson is back In the
office of Attorney E. A. Williams, hap
py and tit, jolting the typewriter after
a vacation of several weeks.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Q. Smith, of Spo
kane, are visiting in Oroville. Mr.
Smith owns property in town and he Is
figuring on getting more of it
A. M. Van Atta, who is still under
treatment at Spokane, is reported to be
improving steadily, with every pros
pect of an early and permanent recov
ery.
Harry Sibble. traveling solicitor for
the I'nion Record, of Seattle, an organ
of organized labor, spent a day or two
in Oroviile in the Interest of his publi
cation this week.
Drs. Lewis and Robinson have one
of the swellest reception rooms that
could be found anywhere outside of the
largest cities. It is very cozy, comfort
able and attractive.
Rebekahs and OddFeilows to Ut#
mmber of 100 held a picnic Sunday at
Deep bay, on the west side of Osoyooa
lake, and a jolly time is reported by all
who were participants,
British Columbia has voted prolsibl
turn by an overwhelming majomy.
hen the law goes iuu effect the road
oetween Oroviile end Fairvlew will
glow up to weeds from disuse.
L. W. Barnes returned home Wednes
day evening from attending a conven
tion of the state undertakers at We
natchee. and went on to Seattle tor a
visit. He was absent for a fortnight,
Dr. Finer reports the arrival of a
12 pound boy to the household of Dr.
and Mrs. H. M. dagger, Tuesday, and
from the smile on that man dagger's
face one would be led to believe that
the fresh addition was the only infant
on earth.
In another column is advertised the
loss of a pocket book containing a sum
of money and considerable jewelery.
The pocket book belongs to a working
girl and the finder should return It at
once, tor sure some one has found It.
A reward will be paid for its return.
F, L. Stansbury invites every boy
and girl under the age of 16 years to
call at his home, just east of town, be
tween the hours of 9 and 10 o’clock
Sunday morning and eat watermelon
and cantaloupe. Mr. Stansbury hag a
large quantity of choice melons and he
makes this a free feed for the young
sters.
A party of engineers and line men
have been at work during the past
week extending the Pacific States tele
phone line from Oroville and Molson.
This will prove a great convenience to
the residents of the two places, and
especially to Molson people, giving
them direct communication with the
valley and the outside world.
n.M PER TEAR
