VOTE AND WORK AGAINST ALL REFERENDUM MEASURES
| and the Constitutional Amendment
Education
Organization
Emancipation
VOL. XXV.
LETTER FROM INTERNATIONAL
WORKERS' DEFENSE LEAGUE
San Francisco, Cal. —Out here
in the big West, a whooping,
yelling mob of "vigilante" business
men is trying to wipe out the last
labor union. Hiring an army of
bristling gunmen for a spy and strike
breaker system, they have slowly ad
vanced from conquered Los Angeles
to the siege of San Francisco.
The opening fight here was to force
labor, against its will, into a "pre
paredness" parade. Every organized
man refused to move, and the parade
for military tyranny was cut down to
a handfud of the unorganized who
were bulldozed into line.
Organized labor, victorious, was
satisfied and completely through with
the affair before the day of march.
But some individuals, fired by the
wild propaganda for military violence,
sent hundreds of warnings through
the mails, saying that they would
blow up the parade with a bomb. Em
ployers and newspapers tried to keep
this quiet, but organized labor men
discovered it and requested their fol
lowers to avoid any chance for such a
thing to be laid at their door, by ab-
.staining from all activity and treating
the parade with silent contempt. This
was done.
The ranks of the unorganized
marched down Market street behind
their employers and society women,
unaware of the warnings. A bomb
exploded, which killed six people out
right, three more dying later. A prom
inent Chamber of Commerce man was
heard to remark: "This is a fine
chance for the open shop."
Immediately the Chamber of Com
merce, through its tools in public of
i cif wooped down on its most hated
en., in organized labor ranks.
They took the leader ef the recent
attempted street car strike, Thomas J.
Mooney (as well as his wife, an in
offensive music teacher), ignored his
complete alibi and charged him with
heading a "conspiracy." The chief of
pickets of the recent Machinists'
strike, Edward D. Nolan, was taken
for vengeaance's sake, without evi
dence, and they announce in the pa
pers that they "have the hemp
stretched around tin- nei*ks of all."
Israel Weinberg, prominent in the
Jitney Bus Operators' Union, which is
troubling the United Railways, was
jailed and accused of murder. Warren
K. Billings, past president of the Shoe
Workers, was charged with the actual
dynamiting, and an eye-witness who
aaw an altogether different man
place the supposed suitcase bomb, was
assaulted in the office of the prose
cutor.
Five conspicuous enemies of the
employers were thus caught and ap
parently doomed. The warnings in
advance that had been received
through the mails, were thereafter
ignored. Direct evidence of eye
witnesses was ignored. The Chamber
of Commerce had the men it wanted.
Every newspaper blandly declined
to print a word without approval by
the "Law and Order Committee."
Several newspaper men working on
the case came secretly to us to
whisper that they knew the men were
Innocent, but "for Cod's sake don't
mention US," One detective working
for the prosecution told a member of
the International Workers' Defense
League that the men were to be con
victed on fake evidence, now being
cooked up, but "not to let on who told
you." Only by keeping the men from
having any defense could they be con
victed, so the prosecution had the in
decency to try to prevent any promi
Big Benefit Dance
-SHINGLEWEAVERS
Admission—Gentlemen 50 Cents, Ladies Free
Music Donated by the Musicians' Union
j nent lawyer from taking the case. A
| judge forced upon the principal de
fendant, fighting for his life, a green
horn lawyer of one year's experience.
By making it clear to a prominent
criminal lawyer that the accused are
not guilty, we have gotten him.
through a sense of justice, to take the
cases for a fee much lower than his
usual charge. But we have not even
it hat much money.
i Twenty-one thousand dollars blood
money is In the sight of the horde of
I ex-Pinkertons and United Railways
detectives, and they will not give up
their prey without a tough fight. The
' prisoners are In the hands of men who
consider labor unionism in itself a
Icrime. They are now proving this by
making peaceful picketing a prison
'offense.
We have demonstrated to many
unions the innocence of the men and
gotten them to send delegates to the
league.
We are not defending bomb throw
ers but innocent men. They will be
executed practically without trial if
we don't get money to defend them.
Send money, and much of it, QUICK,
to the International Workers' Defense
League, Robert Minor, treasurer, 210
Russ Building, lios Montgomery street,
San Francisco.
Fraternally,
INTERNATIONAL WORKERS' DE-
VOTE AGAINST
This measure and the Renick law,
which the supreme court wrongly
held we could not referendum, are the
financial twin hags born of legislative
ignorance and stupidity. It relates to
all taxing districts in the state, in
cluding cities and towns. Much in
the bill is now the law, but the new
parts provide:
(a) "The adoption of the budget
shall impress a trust upon the sep
arate amounts therein set forth for
the specific uses and purposes therein
named."
(hi That the taxing districts may
brrw mnoey, issue warrants and pay
interest thereon under certain con
ditions.
The bill is vicious and unsound and
should he killed because:
(II li prohibits the temporary use
or transfer of all idle moneys from
one fund or purpose to another and
compels cities and all other municipal
corporations to borrow money and go
onto a warrant basis in all unforeseen
cases not provided in the budget.
(2) tt would cost the people thou
sands of dollars each year in un
necessary interest on their own bor
rowed money, while they have mil
lions lying idle in the hanks. Seattle
was on a warrant basis, borrowed
money from its own three and a half
millins of idle money in the banks,
and paid ti per cent interest thereon.
The banks that enjoy the use of all
this idle money, and other big in
terests, lobbied for and are in favor
of this kind of finance and law.
(3) It is the very apex of folly.
An example will show this: Make up
your own private family budget, al
lowing $300 for rent, $100 for fuel,
$200 for clothing, $800 for an auto,
and other sums for various purposes;
put all this money in your bank and
FOR THE
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27
AT FRATERNAL HALL
FENSE LEAGUE.
By Henry Hagelstein.
Referendum Measure No. 9
By JAMES E. BRADFORD
Progressive Nominee for Governor
The Labor Journal
TRADES
COUNCIL
NEWS
The meeting was called to order by
the president, Wl C. Hall.
A letter was read from the Cigar
makers of Lima, Ohio, saying that all
brands of cigars made by the Deisel-
Wemnier cigar factory were unfair to
organized labor. Also a leter stating
that the Cinco cigar is also unfair.
A letter was read from the Metal
Polishers and Buffers' Union of Athol,
Mass., that the tools manufactured by
L. S. Starrett Co., of Athol, Mass.. are
not fair to organized labor.
The Barbers reported the picket is
si ill at the Independent Barber Shop.
The Cooks and Waiters had election
of officers and would donate to the
Shingle Weavers every week.
The Musicians will donate music for
Ihe Shingle Weavers' dance next
week.
The Stage Workers have taken off
the pickets at the Riverside theatre
until the committee could have a
metting with them.
The Shingle Weavers reported that
things were looking more favorable.
The Tailors reported that the
Scotch Woollen Mills are still on the
unfair list.
The Teamsters reprted two in
itiations.
The Trades Council decided to have
500 extra papers to be sent out to
individuals who did not take the paper
from now till election.
A committee was appointed to start
arrangements for the entertainment of
the delegates to the State Federation
in January.
Mrs. Mittelstad and Mrs. S. Samuel
son will speak in the Labor Temple
.Monday on Initiative Measure Xo. 24
and the anti-picketing bill.
LABOR UNION TIDINGS
FROM SAN FRANCISCO
Culinary workers on strike for an
eight-hour day in San Francisco, tired
of being charged with inciting vio
lence because they picket, so they are
now using donkeys to advertise non
union restaurants.
Unionists are wondering what, ob
jection the lawandorderites can raise
against harmless, inoffensive donks.
Individual weakness is strengthened
by individual endeavor.
draw on it for the purposes stated in
your family budget. During the year
you have unforeseen sickness or other
expenses, not provided for in your
annual budget, which amounts to $S00;
under this law, instead of transferring
and using the $800 set aside for the
auto, to pay for sickness, you must go
to the bank, borrow your own money
at ti or 8 per cent interest, and give
your note for the amount. Could !
more silliness be jammed into one
law? t'ould an idiot produce anything
worse? And yet this measure is based
no such an unsound idea.
(41 It makes such a financial
"■trait-jacket" that it will increase the
levy of taxes and idle moneys, be
cause where they are prohibited from
using idle moneys, public officials will
be sure and put enough in the levy to I
cover all purposes, both known and'
unforeseen; they will play safe. It 1
will not tend to economy, but will in
crease such idle moneys and uneces-
Sary interest charges.
(5) The same legislature that
passed this law adopted another one,
which permits the state to use its idle
funds and to do what the cities and'
other taxing districts are forbidden to
do under this law.
(ti) This law is good for the banks,
but bad policy for the people. All
students of the subject believe in the
main theory of the budget system; but
a sound bdget system must be so
fashioned that it can be used in this
world as conditions are. and should,
therefore, be a reasonable, sound,
cinmon-sense working law.
All citizens who favor real econonn
and common sense in the admuiistra
tion of government should work am'
vote against this measure.
THE OFFICIAL PAPER OF THE
DEVOTED TO THE INTEREST
EVERETT, WASH., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1916
Vote and World
AGAINST
All Referendum Measures and
the Constitutional Amendment
1 J Referendum Measure No. 3 and Referendum Measure No. 4
render useless the Initiative, Referendum and Recall.
1. By requiring all persons both in the city and the country
districts to sign all petitions in the registration offices and before a
registration officer.
2. Making it a gross misdemeanor for any one to solicit or
attempt to induce any one to sign a petition within 100 feet of the
entrance to a registration office.
Referendum Measure No. s—Whitney Convention Bill:
destroys the Direct Primary by
I. Restoring the caucus-primary-convention, paid for by poli
ticians, and compelling candidates whose names appear on the ballot
to swear to spport the platform made by the machine controlled
convention.
2. By eliminating independent candidates by means of a
"joker."
3. Legalizing the power of the "hand picking" executive com
mittees.
Referendum Measure No. 6—Anti-Picketing Law:
designed to destroy labor unions by
1. Making unlawful the publication of any facts concerning
any labor difficulty. Under this law it would be a crime for any
person to even carry a newspaper anywhere containing a statement
tof facts about any labor trouble.
2. Preventing the use of pickets to inform the public of the
I unfair attitude of an employer.
Referendum Measure No. 7—Certificate of Public Necessity and
Convenience:
1. Prohibits any new public utility either privately or publicly
| owned unless State Public Service Commission consents to it on the
grounds of public necessity or convenience.
2. Prohibits extensions of municipally owned public utilities—
water, gas, electric, steam heating plants, street railways, interurban
railways, except on consent of Public Service Commission. (Note
that telephone companies are omitted.)
Referendum No. B—Port Bill:
This meausre thwarts the effort of the people of the Seattle
Port District to develop publicly owned and operated harbor ter
minals for access to cheap water transportation to compete with the
state-owned and dominion-aided ports of San Francisco and Van
couver.
By preventing, m the interest of private dock and warehouse
owners, further improvement of the port for the benefit of producers
—of grain, fruit, lumber, fish, etc. —and of consumers of both city
and state —private profit opposed to general welfare.
By adding to the Port Commission one official elected by the
city alone and three officials elected by the county for entirely dif
ferent purposes—a denial of direct responsibility to the people in
the management of their public port utilities.
Referendum Bill No. 9—Budget Bill:
This Budget Bill prohibits the temporary use or transfer of all
idle public moneys from one fund to another and compels cities and
| towns and all other municipal corporations to borrow money and
jgo on a warrant basis in all unforeseen cases not provided for in
the annual budget.
This bill and the Renick bill have cost the people thousands of
dollars in interest on borrowed money while they have millions lying
idle.
Senate Bill 98 permits the state to use its idle moneys, but the
foregoing bills deny the same right to all municipal corporations.
Proposed Amendment to the Constitution—Providing a Property
Qualification for Voters:
This proposed amendment will deprive 75 per cent of the
women and 40 per cent of the men voters of the state of the right
ito vote on any measure providing for the raising or expenditure of
public funds.
It is a reversion to the absurd laws of colonial days, and un
| thinkable at the present time except by those privileged interests
! which are attempting at all times to wrest from the people their
power.
NOTICE———
Big Mass Meeting
at LABOR TEMPLE
MONDAY EVENING, SEPT. 25,8 P. M.
COME AND HEAR
MISS MITTELSTAD AND MRS. S. SAMUELSON
ON INITIATIVE MEASURE NO. 24
EVERYBODY WELCOME—COME
EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL.
OF ORGANIZED LABOR.
INDUSTRIAL ACHIEVEMENTS
EFFECTED BY COMMISSIONER HOWE
New York. —The Industrial relation!
for millions of American citizens anc
workers begins at Ellis Island. Thai
lis New York's great port of entry foi
immigrants. Through that gatewaj
have poured the greatest number ol
those men and women and children
from Europe who have peopled this
great republic tilled its fields, opened
its mines established its factories and
made them productive, made its laws,
elected its public servants, and
created here a nation distinctive and
great in its achievements and more
distinctive and great in its promises.
To have charge at this gateway and
to safeguard the rights of the people
already here and to safeguard in ei|tial
measure the rights and interests of
ihe new workers and citizens and
their families. President Wilson ap
pointed Frederic ('. Howe. It was one
of those appointments like the ap
pointment of Louis D. Brandeis to the
Supreme Court, that was hailed every
where among the plain people as a
pledge that the administration in
tended a government of the right
kind of men to carry on a government
of the right kind of laws. Among all
informed and forward-looking people,
and especially among the producers
and toilers many of whom had passed
through Ellis Island and knew from
experience what was wrong with it
and what should be made right with
It, Mr. Howe's appointment gave the
ihiefest satisfaction.
Tli«> finest and greatest proof that
in his place of trust at Ellis Island
Frederic C. Howe vindicated and up-
Iheld tho national and international
reputation he had earned as a writer
of fundamental democracy and as an
official and unofficial servant in
action of the public has been given
lately hy a member of congress,
named W. S. Bennet of New York.
This congressman was irresponsible
because he was privileged to make the
most unfounded accusations agaiust
any public or private citizen without
any responsibility in a court of law
or in any other tribunal for his state
ments. This congressman exercised
this privilege against a public official,
who had not the privileges of the floor
of congress, as the result of the action
of Commissioner Howe in having ad
vised that the government should not
continue a contract with a firm of
former clients of the congressman for
feeding the immigrant men. women
and children confided to the govern
ments' care. Mr. Howe's recom-j
mendations were that the contract,
involving the expenditure of half a
million dollars a year in time of nor-'
mal. Immigration and being very I
profitable, should not be renewed, and |
that, instead, the authorities at Ellis!
Island should purchase the food and
prepare and supply it to the immi
grants at cost
For this Mr. Howe was assailed. 1
For this unfounded rumors of "im
morality" among the thousands of
men and women of all nationalities 1
who are detained at the island were
misstated as facts. That they were
misstated was proved by an investiga
tion begun at once by the committee
on immigration of the house of repre
sentatives, co-operated with by Mr.
Howe himself and the Department ot
Labor. The report of Secretary Wil
son and Solicitor Densmore, adopted
unanimously hy the committee of con
gress, after Inquiry, proved that a
notable condition of moral cleanliness
prevailed when it was considered that,
the exigencies of the European war
and the impossibility of deporting
man; of the undesirables had crowded
the island's grounds, hospitals and
detention rooms far beyond ray pro
vision that had been made for ordi
nary or foreseen occasions. The acts
of kindness and humanity and neces
sary common sense in the emergency
which Mr. Howe had done, and which
had been approved by the secretary
of labor, were misrepresented In them
selves and distorted from the sur
rounding tacts and conditions which
inspired or compelled them
No public servant who "steps on the
toes" of takers of profit where there
should be no profit; no official who
takes seriously the law's mandate to
safeguard the weak and oppressed
who are in his care; no man in public
or private life who has stopped ex
ploitation by greed of the poor and
In Organization
Lies the Hope
of Labor
s j unsophisticated immigrants as Com
d missioner Howe has stopped it, could
■t escape such an attack,
r From this attack Commissioner
.v Howe emerges not only completely
f vindicated but with this statement of
n the secretary of labor made to con-
S gress concerning the things he had
i done.
1 "The following substantial achieve
• ments in the efficient administra* ion
i of the station have been effected by
11Commissioner Howe:
"1. A thorough investigation with
experts was made of the cost of hos
l pitals which were alleged to be self
? sustaining. The commissioner found
I that the hospitals were losing over
1 $100,000 a year, which loss was being
I paid by the government for the benefit
' of the steamship companies. He se
> cured an increase in hospital charges
• to steamship companies whach has In
' creased the earnings of the hospitals
' by approximately $100,000.
1 "-. He reinvestigated requests for
money for permanent appropriations
; and after investigation reduced such
request, in 1915, by $300,000.
' "3. He reduced, in response to war
conditions the operating salary cos's
of the Ellis Island station by approxi
mately $100.0ei) a year.
"4. He investigated the many im
migration lodging houses and home
in New York and brought about a
clean-up in a number of them.
"5. He secured the co-operation of
the commissioner of police to clean
up the conditions which surrounded
the barge office, and by so doing pro
tected the incoming Immigrants at
New York from the individuals who
had previously preyed upon them.
"S. He investigated and brought
many reforms in the protection of the
aliens en route from Ellis Island, both
at Jersey City and along the route.
"7. He organized all of the em
ployes at the station into an associa
tion for making the wants of the em
ployees known and for securing 'h-'
co-operation of all the employees In
the administration of the station.
"8. He brought about a reorganiza
tion of the purchasing of supplies for
the hospitals at a great saving and
improvement in the service.
'"'. He made au investigation of the
conditions under which landing of
first and second cabin aliens were
made at the various piers around
New York, and ended many abuses
and losses to which the aliens were
exposed.
"10. He brought about a change in
the inspection of first and ?econd
cabin aliens on shipboard which
'greatly improved the service.
"11. He made a number of studies
lat the request of the department as to
( means for mc reasing the efficiency
! and the rating of the employees
"12. He greatly increased the out
-1 put of the division of statistics and
brought about a complete Change is
the filing system.
"13. He worked in co-operation with
the board of education of New York
for the opening of the night schools
for the education of adult aliens
"1-1. He organized a number of
agencies looking to the protection of
; aliens in New York.
"15. He organized a movement in
1 1910 for Americanization da> cele
brations throughout the country, and
over 100 cities held citizenship cele
brations as a result of the cofflmts
! siom r's efforts.
| "it;. During the past two years
j Ell's Island has been almost free from
! the constant criticism on the part of
foreign organisations and of the
foreign press which prior to his ad
ministration was continuous It was
diluted at the alleged lack of kind
ness and consideration to incoming
aliens. The non-foreign press of New
York has been almost continuou- in
its approval of his administnuion and
thi' BUUTj changes and impro\ements
which he has brought about.
"I remain very respectfully jours,
"W H. WILSON.
"Secretary of Labor."
\v hen one considers that the very
first "industrial relations" with which
the immigrants come in contact are
the industrious activities of big and
little interests to take their money
au„v from them, it is easier to esti
mate the fine quulity of public service
tContinued on Page Two)
No. S3
