wittita
VOL. 43 FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1916. NO. 37
lie
11 Ml At - n VKBjUC rmBE77
GRAND
Democratic
RALLY!
AT
Flat River
ON
Monday, Sept. 25
There will be two great meetings
At 2 p. m. and 8 p. m.
The following able speakers will be present and
discuss the REAL ISSUES OF THE PRESENT CAM
PAIGN IN A SANE AND INTELLIGENT MANNER:
Senator James A. Reed
Gov. Brough, of Arkansas
Col. Fred D. Gardner
Frank W. HcAllister
These speakers are fully competent and quali
fied to discuss, in a sane and intelligent manner,
the live, working issues of the present campaign,
from a National, State or local viewpoint and it will
be a rare treat for all who may be in search for ac
tual information in regard to just what the results
of this campaign really mean to them.
You should not fail to be present at one, or, bet
ter still, both these great meetings, as you will sure
ly be instructed, edified and entertained by these
splendid speakers, mentioned above, who will pos
itively BE THERE.
The services of two good bands have been se
cured to add interest to the occasion, which will
prove a rare treat for all.
DON'T FAIL TO BE AT THESE MEETINGS. Re
member the date-NEXT MONDAY, SEPT. 25th.
By order of PARKHURST SLEETH,
Chairman Democratic Co. Central Com.
CHANGE IN POSITIONS I
T Fred Isenman, who for the past i
several years has been the efficient
and accommodating agent at the
Electric and M. R. & B. T. Ry. sta
tion in this city, has sent in fell res
ignation, to take effect Oct. 1st, next,
when he will succeed Chas. Giessmg,
Jr., in the Bank of Farmington. Mr.
Giessing had previously resigned his
position in the bank to go into the
Farmington Milling Co., in which
concern he recently purchased an in
terest, and which is now owned en
tirely by himself, his father, John
Giessing, and brother, P. D. Giessing.
Mr. Isenman's stressor in the rail
road office has not yet been announc
ed, and that place will not be easy to
till with the same degree of capabil
ity with which Mr. Isenman has giv
en to it. His manner is always ac-j
eommodating and courteous, no mat-;
.. ,Viot tha nccision. And he num
bers his friends by his acquaintances.
That he will bring with him to his
new position in the Bank of Farm
ington similar qualifications there is
no doubt among his multitude of
friends.
Piano Tuning
R. W. VORHEES of St. Louia is
in town timing pianos. A card
dropped at the Farmington
Post Office will receive prompt
attention or phone 334.
MISSOURI EDITORIAL PRESS ASSOCIATION MEETING
The Golden Jubilee
The occasion of the fiftieth anni
versary of the Misaouri Press Asso
ciation drew to the Golden Jubilee
Anniversary of that body the larg
est attendance in the history of that
organization. The meeting place was
in Kansas City, and the Muehleback .
Hotel was headquarters, and through
out the meeting everything was done '
that might possibly add to the pleas
ure and profit of the newspaper gang.
For the splendid entertainment, so!
freely extended, thanks are princi-l
pally due to the Commercial Club of'
that city, which is certainly a live, j
progressive bunch, which in no wayi
retards the truly wonderful growth!
and development of that thriving me
tropolis. Among the special entertainments
provided for the Press Association j
FARMINGTON IS ELATED
And Has Reason to Be Over the Suc
cess of Its Brilliant, Spectacular
Pageant and Concert
The second presentation of the his
torical pageant undertaken by the
I people of Farmington was given last
i Saturday night, thus closing the most
i beautiful and spectacular entertain
ment ever witnessed here. It was a
I reproduction of the scenes presented
Thursday night, a description of
which appeared in The Times last
j week, and was as keenly enjoyed and'
I appreciated by those who had wit
nessed the first presentation as by the
! iiew spectators. The crowds each
: night were about the same, variously
; estimated at from 1,500 to 2,000 and
over; indeed, as one looked upon the
I spectators, tier upon tier, the crowd
! appeared even larger, but the gate
! receipts and sale of tickets would in
I dicate the smaller rather than the
; larger number. There were many
from out of town not as many, how-
ever, as was expected due to the
' threatening appearance of the clouds
the first night, and the unusually cool
nights that followed.
The production cost in the neighbor
hood of $800, and netted between
$200 and $300. No expense was
spared in stage setting, the auditor
ial seating of the grounds, costumes
and other scenic effects, to say no
thing of the enthusiastic preparation
of weeks of fully two hundred men,
women and children who took part, in
acquainting themselves with the char
acters they represented, drilling and
rehearsing. Among so many it would
be invidious to mention names or par
ticularize. Credit is due all. Each
one had in view the successful out-,
come of the pageant and felt a pride
in sustaining the artistic and musical
capabilities for which our town we
say it modestly has no mean repu
tation, and to that end all labored.
In this their most sanguine expec
tations were realized, for the success
of the pageant is evidenced by the
warm words of praise and apprecia
tion that were universully accorded it,
and the surprise expressed that an en
tertainment of such proportions, beau
ty and scenic effect could be given in
Farmington by home talent. It was
beyond even the most enthusiastic
expectations of those who managed
and all who took part in it. Farm
ington certainly has good reason to
congratulate itself and to feel proud
ovor the result.
The Concert Feature.
. Friday night the grand concert fea
ture of the pageant was given. It
was a cold night, but the crowd was
as large, If not larger, than on either
of the other nights. We have often
noticed that a musical entertainment
attracts in Farmington more than any
other kind, and we feel no hesitancy
in saying that few towns- equal it. in
musical talent and culture. After
an opening march by Barroll's Or
chestra, Father Morgan delivered the
following short address:
Concert Address by Father Morgan.
I have been requested by those in
chnrge of this evening's program to
clothe in words a few thoughts sug
gested by this uuspicious and eventful
occasion. Farmington has had occa
sions in the past, occasions, I am sure,
that were bathed in the sunlight of
noble endeavor; she will have occa
sions in the future, occasions, let us
hope, that will measure up to the
greatness that shall then be hers;
bat to-night she stands radiant in
beauty, a charming goddess, upon the
mountain top of achievement, looking
down into the valley of her past, gaz
ing up into the cloud-lands of her fu
ture; and as she contemplates the one
and dreams her golden dreams of the
other, she can find adequate expres
sion for the emotion that fills her
Occasion of Largest
was a well arranged river excursion
Thursday evening, anautomobile ride
over about fifty miles of that city's
splendid boulevards Friday afternoon,
during which the visitors were given
a chance to note the unexampled im
provements that are going forward in
all parts of that city. Friday eve
ning's entertainment was a show at
the Orpheum, and on Saturday eve
ning the fiftieth annual meeting of
the Missouri Press Association came
to a close with a sumptuous banquet in
the Baltimore Hotel, which marked
the zenith of open-hearted hospitali
ty. There was produced not only the
most inviting and enticing things to
appease the physical appetite, but the
music and eloquence furnished in
abundance was well up to the high
order of "eats". It transported the
heart only in the glorious harmony of
music and song.
Music, oh how faint, how sweet,
Language fades before thy spell;
Why does feeling ever speak
When thou canst breathe her soul so
well?
Friendship's balmy words may feign,
Love's arc even more false than they.
Oh, 'tis only music's strain
Can sweetly soothe and not betray.
The Pageant and tonight's Con
cert are twin sisters, bride-maids both
to their elder sister, Farmington,
wedded this Home-Coming week to i
Ambition's noblest son. Cities and
towns, like individuals, are measured ;
by their growth; and real growth,'
that which flowers into fruitage, is so
gradual that it is almost impercepti-1
ble. Between the acorn and the oak
intervenes many a day of sunshine
and shadow, many a night of moon-
light and storm.
Farmington has had her past, a I
past of lofty ambition, worthy pur-!
pose and earnest striving. She did
not spring up over night to become a !
deserted village with the sunset of
tomorrow.1 No, her pioneers laid
broad and deep her foundations, and
today those same foundations, un
shaken and unmoved, support the ed
ifice of her modern achievements,
though the hands of those that budd
ed are withered into dust.
Tonight the past and the future
meet in the embrace of the present.
We look backward, we look forward.
Our veneration for the days that are
gone, our anticipation for the ones
that shall come, are to he voiced this
evening in the sweet discourse of mu
sic and in the joyous notes of song.
Last night in the Pageant story we
saw this town, cradled in the lap of
a Nature-favored county, rise from
small beginnings to big things. Kair
Farmington, the City of Big Things!
Let's strive to make this town big, not
only in physical resources and mater
ial wealth, but big with a bigness that
comes from the soul. Let's have it
grow with a growth that is sysony
mous with progress. Let's see it
blossom and unfold with an unfolding
that will reveal in each inhabitant a
civic pride, a Christian deportment.
May Farminglnn's days partake of the
PaiMllt and Concert spirit; and may
this Hame-Coming week being to each
resident and exresident the sweet con
viction that 'Mid pleasures and pal
aces though we may roam, be it ever
so humble there's no place like your
old home town.
The Concert.
It is believed that an audience num
bering more than 2,000 people was
never before assembled in St. Fran
cois county for the sole purpose of
hearing a concert. But the crowd
present on Friday night was easily
that large and some say larger. At
U events, one man who counted the
automobiles parked at the Pageant
grounds and all of them full of peo
ple reports that the number was 112.
The seating capacity of 2,f00 appeared
to lie taxed to the limit, and owing to
the clever sound-shell which Mr. Bar
roll originated for this performance,
all who attended got the full benefit
of the music.
The concert opened with an orches
tra number qy Barroll's Concert Or
chestra, under the direction of Prof.
Porter for the evening. This was fol
lowed by a few appropriate remarks
by Father Morgan. Then Miss Bar
bara Caroline Tullock gave a charm
ing violin number, after which Mas
ter Ted Graves gave a solo on the tu
ba (basB horn) accompanied by the
orchestra. Another orchestra num
Attendance in Ertire History of Body
guests into forgetfulness, for a time,
at least, of the "pork an' " awaiting
them on their return to their homes.
There were also a number of other
interesting things insisted on for the
visitors to enjoy, which were provided
for by individual firms and corpora
tions, among which was a trip to the
Armour & Co. packing plant imme
diately after the close of the final ses
sion of the Association. Practically
the entire press party was escorted
through that plant, where the prepar
ing of all kinds of meats is sufficient
to sustain an immense army. Here a
sumptuous lunch was also served to
the entire party, which, on depart
ing, was loaded down with splendid
souvenirs of that great packing
plant. On the automobile drive also
the party halted at a plaiaa and posed
ber was giver next, followed by a vo
cal solo delightfully rendered by Miss
Claire Evans of Bonne Terre. This
was followed by an instrumental trio,
given by Milton Tucker and Ralph
Tucker of Flat River and Mrs. Shaw
of Farmington. Next was a clever
"stunt" pulled off by Mr. J. J. Rob
erts, who is a reader of exceptional
ability. He made his appearance
from the audience, "made up" as a
tramp, and captivated the audience
with his readings.
Otto Long of Bonn Terre, a tenor
of unusual attainments, then gave a
beautiful solo, following which Mr.
Porter offered a violin number in the
inimitable manner for which he has
become more than locally famous.
This was followed by a vocal solo
in Gypsy costume, given by Miss Ag
nes Haile, a pupil of Mrs. Nelson, and
one of Farmington's most promising
young singers. The next number was
a piano solo by Mrs. Ethel Morris Ar
nold of Federal. Mrs. Arnold prob
ably stands without an equal as a
pianist in this part of Missouri, and
as always, delighted the audience.
Next was a baritone solo by Mr.
Francisco, who is always good, and
this was followed by a delightful
dance, given with orchestra accom
paniment, by Miss Catherine Gard
ner and Mr. Stanton McClintock. Both
are graceful dancers whose work was
u pleasing variation to the program.
The Megaphone Boys next took the
stage, offering popular songs which
pleased the crowd immensely, and the
concert closed with another orches
tra number.
Barroll again proved himself a mas
ter builder of attractive programs
made up of local talent, this concert
being perhaps the best that has yet
been given under his direction. While
the weather was exceedingly uncom
fortable, and the audience sat in shiv
vering physical misery for two hours
and twenty minutes, expressions of
pleasure and delight are heard on ev
ery hand, and the concert is declared
one of the most completely successful
features of Pageant week in Farm
ington. Compliments
Hospital No. 4
W. R. Taylor, of Fulton, Mo., pres
ident of the Board of Mai asws if
the Insane Asylum at thi-t place,
came in Monday for a visit with his
old friend, Or. G. E. Scrutchfield, Su
perintendent of Slate Hospital No. 4,
and to inspect that institution. This
was Mr. Taylor' first visit to the
Farmington insti '.ion, as it was also
the first opportur y he had ever had
of j f,rsonal e .ation of such an
Institution built iMi, ttie cottage plan:
He was impressed not only with the
appearances of everything at the
hospital, but also with the general
appearances of Farmington, which he
pronounced as n splendid appearing
Bttle city. He made a minute in
spection of the hospital, avid pro
nounced it a very great improvement
over the Fulton institution, as well as
all others he had seen, throughout the
country, in its plan of construction,
the beauty of its surroundings, its
quietude and home-likenes.;, and the
apparent efficiency of its management.
Mr. Taylor has not only made a
splendid record as President of the
Fulton Asylum Board (f Managers,
but he is also a successful business
man of that city, has served the
"Kingdom of Callaway" efficiently
and well four years as County Col
lector, for the past 12 years has been
chairman of the Democratic County
Central Committee, and is just now
entering upon another term in that
position. He is therefore qualified as
n competent judge, and his opinion of
Farmington and Hospital No. 4 should
not be without weight. The Times
truly appreciates such expressions,
knowing that they are true.
Wm. Parker and family of Frank
clay were Farmington visitors last
Saturday.
for a picture, and the Baird Company,
Engravers, generously insisted on
sending to every paper there repre
sented a half tone cut of the group,
from which the above picture is print
ed. Never before, we are confident, was
the Missouri Press Association more
satisfactorily and sumptuously en
tertained than on the occasion of its
Golden Jubilee, and every member re
turned home more than pleased with
' heir visit, and unable to recall a sin
Tie circumstance in any way detrimen
tal to Kansas City, the feeling being
unanimous that she is the most glit
tering jewel in all the west, filled with
"real folks." The sentiment was
unanimous among the "molders of
thought" that Kansas citizens are 100
per cent pure as entertainers.
Stale "Torpedoes'
Tuesday was advertised as a great
day in Farmington for a "ratification"
among Republicans of this section of
the State. Glaring posters had been
sent out announcing that Judge Hen
ry Lamm, candidate for Governor,
Hon. Walter Dickey, candidate for
United States Senator, and other les
ser lights would appear on the bat
tlements to shed scintillating rays on
a benighted country.
And, indeed, the aforementioned
gentlemen were present, with several
"lesser packages." There was also a
small ingathering from nearby points
very small. The bulk of the audi
ence that gathered in the Monarch
Theatre were residents of this city,
and a good half of them were Demo
crats. Yet, there were many vacant
scats. A band was also in attendance
with inspiring music, to try and in
ject some enthusiasm into the meet
ing, but with the exception of a few
dispiriting cheers, everything passed
off as quietly and orderly as though
it were a Sunday School picnic.
Edward A. Rozier introduced Judge
Lamm in an eulogistic manner, but
the Judge absolutely failed to meas
ure up to the descripticn as a political
speaker. He has the reputation of
being a very good judge, but when he
left the law to accept the Republi
can gubernatorial nomination he must
have made a lamentable mistake.
Personally and privately we were fa
vorably impressed with Judge Lamm
as a man, and we do not doubt that
he has rendered acceptable services
to the State as a Supreme Judge. We
were sorry to note that he at least at
tempted to leave wrong impressions
on the minds of his hearers in regard
to the present Democratic adminis
tration having "busted" the State,
the State's finances at this time being
at least normal. We make no at
tempt to give a resume of his speech,
as it was largely misleading through
out as to the real facts.
Hon. Walter S. Dickey, of Kansas
City, was next introduced by Hon. M.
K. Rhodes, candidate for Congress in
the Thirteenth District. Mr. Dickey,
who is known in Kansas City us a
"get-rich-quick" artist, spoko along
lines relating more to national poli
tics, dealing largely with the tariff,
but his presentments were equally as
visionary as were those of Judge
kmm. Rut the most disastrous part
of it all to them was that their audi
ence was able to recognir.c the inac
curacies in their speeches.
Mr. Rhodes followed with perhapH
the most interesting speech of the af
ternoon. He, being a product of this
part of the State, was able to sec
that gross misstatements would likely
act as a boomerang; haiucf his snoec!)
was more conserativ . i,ut unless
Judge Lamm and Hon. Walter Dick
ey arc taken in hand and drilled by
their State Committee, so that the
tenor of their speeches are somewhat
changed, their campaign speeches will
certainly prove to be a greater lia
bility than an asset to their party's
hope of success. What was intended
as a tonic, to inject renewed life and
enthusiasm into the g. o. p., proved
to be only a bunch of old, stale, shop
worn fireworks, that would hardly
sizzle and were a complete disap
pointment. One man stated that ho
had been victimized by being drawn
into Farmington in the hope of hear
ing some "live ones", only to be hand
ed a bunch of "buncombe" that did
not compare to that on tap at the
"cross-roads" store.
We Most Heartily
Appreciate This
Almost every mail brings to this
office letters of commendaticn of The
Times under its present management.
The following, however, appears to be
more emphatic in its well written con
tents, for which the writer has our
heart-felt thanks. Read and see what
others think:
The Times Printing Co.,
Farmington, Missouri.
Sirs:
Enclosed, please find postoffice mon
ey order for which credit me with a
year's subscription to your valued
paper, The Times, from April 1, 1916,
to April 1, 1017.
You have certainly made The Times
the best paper in St. Francois county
and editorially one of the beat in
Southeast Missouri. The Democracy
if St. Francois county ought to be
iroud of such a paper and give you
heir unstinted support financially in
rder that you may bo enabled to
;ive the readers of The Times the
icst there is in newspaperdom.
Wishing you continued success, I
leg to remain.
Yours truly,
A. B. NIEHAUS,
Charleston, Mo.
Still Coming
The following new subscribers to
The Times have been received the
past week: Edward F. Dugal, E. G.
Williams, Dr. F. L. Long, all of Farm
ington; Mrs. J. M. Perkins, Route 5,
J. W. Buck, Route 3, Farmington;
M. W. Oneskeneiz, of Leadwood; John
A. Sprott, of Thompaons, Utah; A. B.
Neihaus, of Charleston, Mo.; N. A.
McHenry, Route 4, Farmington; Miss
Virginia Marbury, St. Charles, Mo.;
Miss Pauline Byington, Sikeston; A.
Kinkcad, Farmington Route 6; Ed
Simpson, Farmington Route 1; Jesse
E. Keay, Elvins.
Dr. C. C. Kcrlagon and J. C. Blan
ton of Bismarck were here Saturday
to witness the Pageunt and made The
T?- - an appreciated call.
