E
LACLEDE
BLADE.
Volume 27, Number 20
LACLEDE, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1016
$1.00 Per Year in Advance
TOWN AND COUNTRY
P. L 0. Meeting
After a three mouth's vacation
chapter K or iV bi. J. toot up
ON LOCAL. SUBJECTS
About Local People and Events and their year's work at the regular Locaj jtcms anJ interestine B;ts ,
Otber Matters of Interest
Cholerine Tor sick chickens, 50c
the bottle. Carothers & Allen
Chas. Palmer is building a new
meeting on Thursday of last week,
Mrs. L. E. Hamilton being hostess.
Following the transaction of busi
oess Mrs. Lola Lomax gave a short
sketch .of the birth and growth of
News of All Sorts
barn at his farm home on route v-vrVL.uwu-.. Vlam
March dU, lyui, The rooms were
three.
For Sale One Buick auto and
piano like new. Phone 174, La
clede.
Our Saturday special, 7 packages
Hippo washing powder for 25c.
Carothers & Allen. v
Moving pietnres at the opera
house on Thursday and Saturday
nights of this week.
We are selling a very fine canned
California peach at a low price
Kraft & Brenner.
Three milch cows, two yearling
heifers and five steer calves for
sale. Anna Ransom.
We have 'em! Perfection oil
heaters for cool mornings
eveniugs. Carothers & Allen
Our outing flannels are now on
sale and we have a full and com
plete line. Kraft & Brenner.
Kraft & Brenner have just
opened up a new line of men's and
boys' caps. Come and see them.
Three burner coal oil stove with
prettily decorated with asters and
marguerites. The hostess served
elaborate refreshments. The guests
during the social hour were Mrs.
W. R. Barton, Mrs. Nellie Car-
others.-Mrs. M. F. Clay, Mrs. H
M. Standly, Mrs. O. B. Talbott,
Mrs. A. J. Baum, Mrs. J. Clair
Lomax, Mrs. Max Joues, Mrs. J.
B. Patrick, Mrs. Jno. T. Lomax,
Misses Laura Love, Etta Power,
Esther Rowland and Louese
Haight. -
Royal Neighbor Surprise
The Royal Neighbors pulled off of this week at 7:00 to vote on
Rev. Pardonner of Chillicothe
will fill his regular appointment at
the Christian church next Sunday,
preaching morning and evening.
Sunday school at $:45. All are
cordially iuvited to attend these
services.
Z. R. Kliug is preparing to put
a set of new improvements on his
north farm known as the Bothel
place. The house will be two
story with eight rooms and base
ment and moderq in every way.
J. B. Carothers has the carpenter
work.
The Royal Neighbor camp will
have an adjourned meetine at
Woodman hall on Friday evening
applications of candidates aud t
practice drill for county couven
tion. All members are urged to
be in attendance.
On account of the sickness of
an agreeable surprise on then
and Dewly married member last Tues
day. Mr. and Mrs. Harry Barber
and the latter's mother, Mrs. J
W. Haight were invited to take
dinner with Mrs. Wm. Willard and their president, Mrs. Patrick, the
family. The mother of course was W. C. T. U. did not hold their
wise to the arrangements but Mr. regular meeting last Tuesday but
and Mrs. Barber were completely will hold meeting at Mrs. Georgia
surprised when they arrived from Savage, Tuesday, September 26
Brookfield to find the Willard All active members are urged to
oven, all in good condition, for home a veritable hive of Royal be present.
go a nnaon no 1 1 h k i -. . . .-. i ...
.v, v, v.i . - iseiernDors who extended them a Mrs. J una uendncks. after a
it 1 I '
116D . I nAnflial fvtaaf inrv ansl Vtooffvr AAn. I mnnfK'a triaif Vtaia . xifirK Kot noi.
We still have some of that fine gratnlations. A dinner; snch as ents, Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Harter,
PERSONAL PARAGRAPHS
Brief Mention of Those Who Come
and Go During the Week
Ransom Simpson made a busi
ness trip to Macon last Friday.
Dr. F. VV. Burke made a pro-
to Kansas City
Schools Down to Work
mi T . i i a
ine jjacieue school are now
on the third week of the year with
1 A i 1 .
a larger attendance man ever
before, there being 58 in the high
school. There are more non
resident pupils than last year.
The school is so well organized
that no time whatever was lost in
getting down to real work after
the summer vacation Tfi fnmiHv tessioual visit
is the same as last year with the Wednesday
exception of Miss Flo Hunter Mr. and Mrs. U. Kent of Utica
assistant in the hii?h ' school. came Tuesday tor a short visit
Superintendent CrookshankTeoorts with Mr- and Mrs- J- Knight.
that she is making good alone miss mena Vincent or Browning
with all the other teanhers nnd visited Mr. and Mrs. Chas.
ndications are for one of the most Jennin3 on route tIiree last wet,k-
successful years of the school. M,ss My' barter is at Kirks-
"J : yr r ville to spend the winter attending
uu 1 r5unBI the state normal.
Mrs. U. A. House of Sumner is Mrs. C. C. Bigger is attending
lsiting Mrs. J. E. Welsh this the Eastern Star grand chapter in
week. St. Louis this wek
Going down! Virginia sweet Kev- H.J. Dueker is attending
potatoes 3c the lb. CarotLers & the annual M. E. conference at
Allen. Kirksville this week.
J. P. Harter, Chris Brockman Mr. and Mrs. Ed. Murphy and
aud J. A. Henry spent last Satur- baby spent last week here visiting
day in Kansas City
We have a few bushels of Red
Globe onions at $1.25 per bushel
Carothers & Allen.
Wm. H. Hamby, the magazine
writer, was here from Chillicothe
on business last Satuiday
Mr. and Mrs. Geo. O. Plowman.
Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Talbott and
Mr. and Mr?. W. E. Shell motored
to St. Joseph and back last Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Ricker spent
Saturday and Sunday with B. F.
Mrs. Samuels of Milan has spent Thompson and family in Brook
the past week here visiting her
brother, J. L. Sayre, on route two
field.
Mr, and Mrs. John Napple, son
sorghum molasses for sale at 50 the Royal Neighbors are famous
for preparing, was enjoyed by
every one present.
A daughter Mary Ruth-
born to Mr. and Mrs. J.
-was
cents per, gallon. Kraft & Bren
ner. Movies at the opera bouse Thurs
day and Saturday nights of each
week. The pictures are now better
than ever before.
Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Calhoun
left Wednesday to spend a few
weeks with their daughter and
family at Adrian.
Just arrived, a full line of men's,
ladies' and children's sweaters and
children's sweater coats and
mackinaws. Kraft & Brenner.
Miss Vernie Kent of Osgood
visited her grand-parents, Mr. and
Mrs. J. Knight and her aunt, Mrs.
S. C. Kuhn here the past two
weeks.
Mrs. N. E. Fletcher will se
some household goods and tools at
- auction at her home in the north
part of town oh Saturday after
noon of this week.'
uur new line ot men's and
ladies shoes have just arrived and
are on sale. Come in and let up
fit you up for fall and winter
Kraft & Brenner.
C. E. Goosey, has sold his 80
acre farm adjoining his home place
on the south to his brother Albert
of Schuyler county who will move
here and take possession next
spring.
C. M. Burnett has remodeled the
house on his tenant farm just
east of his home place, putting it
on a ' concrete fonndation and
making other substantial improve
ments.
Isaac H. Clough, one of onr
substantial farmer friends, made
hi? annual September visit to this
office last week as a result of which
five subscriptions were advanced
another year.4
A. C. Lloyd will hold a public
sale of stock and farm implements
at the Geo. Lloyd farm soathwest
of Lftcledetm Tb'arsday, September
23. Col. Shiflett is the auctioneer,
and M. P. Benson, clerk.
Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Harter and
Democratic Speaking at Brookfield
M. Y. Rusk of Brookfield called
up The Blade yesterday and re
quested us to announce that there
would be democratic speaking at
the DeGraw theatre in Brookfield
next Saturday eveninc at 7:30.
The speakers are to be Col. Fred seems to be stepPing as hib as a
Gardner, democratic candidate for
left Wednesday morning to return Jones at The Qakg , fc Saturd
10 uer nome at c on ocon, ivansas,
stopping at Chillicothe for a short
visit, being accompanied that fat
by her sister, Miss Kathryn Haiter.
Mrs. A. D. Welsh and Mrs
Cecil Welsh wer in Chariton
county last Monday afternoon to
see Joyce Linn, the new son of
Mr. aud Mrs. Roy Welsh. Rov
and daughter, Clifford and Mil-
Paul urn are 'n Ohio for a few weeks
visit.
Mrs. Fred Hanson and son
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Henry spent Frederick left Friday for Genesco
governor; Speaker Champ Clark;
Senator James A. Reed and Bert
Nortoni of St. Louis. These
gentlemen are to hold a meeting
in Chillicothe Saturday afternoon
and motor to Brookfield, passing
through Laclede about 6 o'clock
Pershing May Be Promoted
A Washington news dispatch
yesterday 'stated that Brig. Gen
John J. Pershing, commander o
the American punitive expedition
in Mexico and ranking brigadier o
the army, probably wonld be made
a major general, a vacancy in that
grade having been created by the
death Tuesday of Major Genera!
Mills
L C N. Club
The L. C. N. club met at the
home of Mrs. L. E. Eictman in
Laclede on Thursday of last week.
An excellent dinner was enjoyed
and a most pleasant social time
was had. Mrs. Eichman, assisted
by her dangbter, Mrs. Mathes.
entertained their guests royally
The club will meet with Mrs.
Chas.- Facto at the regular meet
ing in October.
Mrs. Geo. Estes has kindly in
vited the members to her home in
Laclede, Thursday of this week.
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph E. Reed of
Kansas City were guests of the
atter'B cousin, Mrs. O. P. Libby
and family Wednesday. Mr. aud
Mrs. Reed were returning from
their wedding trip to St. Paul and
otber places in the north, haviug
been married September 7, at
Kansan City.
little boy with a new pair of red
topped boots and wearing a smile
that won't come off.
Mark H. Lomax, after spending
a month at his home here, returned
to Columbia last Saturdav where
he is manager of the Columbia
Typewriting Bureau. The bureau
Thursday afternoon in Chillicothe.
Stove pipe, stove boards and
coal hods are in demand now. Let
us supply your needs.
& Allen.
Jay C. Lomax of Princeton is
here visiting his father, H. C.
Lomax aud otber relatives and
friends.
The Reading Circle will meet
with Mrs. J. E. Welsh next Tues
day evening. Leader, Mrs. J. W.
Lomax.
Every nominee on the republi
can ticket irom president to
has a number of typewriters em- coroner is worthy of your most
ployed and does copying, letter cordial support.
writing and mimeographing for Ed. M. Welsh is down from
university students and business Kansas City spending a week with
firms and corporations and does his parents, Mr. and Mrs. E. K.
juite a profitable business. Welsh and other relatives.
The Locust creek telephone line Anyone wishing new and beanti-
held their semi-annusl supper at Ml rugs made from old carpet, seej
the home of Robert and Miss Ellen pr call Mrs. Lanra Huffman, phone
Watson last Saturday. The rooms 16. agent for the Kansas City
were tastily decorated in yellow RQ2
and green while a beautiful bou- Mrs. B. F. Thompson and Mrs.
quet of art flowers graced the Oscar Weaver of Brookfield at-
dining table. Music aod games tended the Roval Neighbor sumrise
were enjoyed by air and refresh- an(j dinner at the home of Mrs.
ments of ice cream, cake and
fruits were seryed until a late hour.
The Locust creek line is a live
wire" and an oyster supper in
February will be the next "big
eed."
On the eighth page of The
Blade today will be found the
annonncement of the opening of
W. Hartman's new store at
Brookfield next Monday afternoon.
Wm. Willard last Monday
Illinois, to visit relatives and
friends.
J. B. Jones and family spent
(jarothers Saturday afternoon and Sunday
with Mr. and Mrs. E. K. Welsh
near Forker.
Mrs. P. P. Diesner of Brock
field is visiting her parents, Mr.
aud Mrs. W. S. Mahurin on route
one this week.
Fred Clinefelter left Saturday
for Columbia to resume his studies
in the agricultural department of
the state university.
Mrs. John E. Byrd of Kansas
City, Kans., is here visiting rela
tives and friends, guest of the
family of A. S. Byrd.
S. H. Hogsett of Detroit, 111.,
returned to his home last Tuesday
after a short visit with his nephew,
V. E. Hogsett and wife on route
one.
J. E. Marsh has returned to
Maryville to complete his course at
the state normal, expecting to re
turn next spring with a state life
certificate.
C. C. Bigger, past grand master,
aud H. J. Benjamin, representing
the local lodge, are in St.
are invited to come to the church
Wednesday and Thursday, Sep
Louis this week attending the
The Ladies of the M. E. church j Masonic grand lodge.
W. R. Peacher and wife and F.
jR. Power and wife spent a couple
and
making
the trip in Mr. Peaeher's car.
After a month's visit with rela-
tember 27 and 28 for the purpose' j i t u
, , . , , , 0f days last week visiting a
of cleaning the church. Bring' Ut vr i
& 5 sightseeing in Kansas City, maki
your dinner
Mrs. A. S. Byrd and children,
Mrs. F. F. Welsh and son and tives and friends here. Mr. and
Mrs. John Byrd of Kansas City, ! Mrs. V. E. Monnett and babv have
n point of equipment, beautifnl KanS- gpent Wednesday with Mr.lg0neto Norman, Okla., to make
styles and nicety of arrangement Rna Mrs- 'ae y& at Uie,r their home, Mr. Monnett teaching
this is said to be the finest ready- Pa?ant rural home. geology in the state nuiversity.
to-wear ladies store in all this pai t Enjoy some of the conveniences Rev. J. W. Anderson, on his
of the country. It is in a new of modern life by having your way to the M. E. conference at
building, with new fixture? and a house wireU for electric lights if Kirksville, stopped off here Mon-
complete new stock, and the open- yon are not already on the service, i day and took dinner with Mr. and
ing will no doubt attract a large Se Cay wood & Baum and have' Mrs. J. T. Bdssctt. Rev. Ander-
delegation of ladies from Laclede the work done now daring the fall son is located at Oregon, Mo.,
and son-onndiog country.
! house cleaning.
this year.
