THE BARRE DAILY TIME
PRICE. ONE CENT.
BARRE. VERMONT, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER
191(5.
VOL. XX NO. 161.
A MILE
FRONT
BROKEN
British Captured Two Lines
of German Trenches Be
tween Flers and Martin
puieh Last Night and
Straightened Out Their
Line So That It Runs Al
most Directly North
FRENCH PUT DOWN
SOME FIERCE ATTACKS
The Germans Advancing in
Waves Between La Priez
Farm and Rancourt Were
Forced by the French Ar
tillery to Retreat and Par
is Reports That Attackers
Suffered Heavily
London, Sept. 22. The British ad
anced on a front of about a mile last
night in the Homme, sector, south of the
Ancre river, the war office announced to
day, and two lines of hostile trenches
were captured. The statement says:
"During the night we advanced on
a front of about a mile-, rapturing
two lines of hostile trenches, between
Flers and Muitinpuich. Our front
now run approximately on a direct
line north of Flers and Martinpuich.
The enemy's trenches were also suc
cessfully entered last night south of
Arras, prisoners being taken and
many casualties inflicted. North of
Nouville St. Vnast, a mine was
blown up by us, and the crater was
occupied."
WAVES OF GERMANS
WERE HURLED BACK
BY THE FRENCH
Very Heavy Efforts to Regain Lost
Ground Between LaPriez Farm and
Rancourt Failed and the
Losses Were Heavy.
Paris, Sept. 22. German infantry ad
vaneing in waves made renewed efforts
this morning to .beat back the French
from the positions recently captured
north of the Somme. The official an
nouncement to-day says the attacks
were broken by the French artillery be
fore liie Germans reached the French
lines, compelling them to retire to their
own trenches after sustaining heavy
losses. The attacks of the Germans,
made in strong force, were centered on
the French positions between LaPriez
farm and Rancourt.
BULGARIANS LOSE
IN HEAVY BATTLES
IN MACEDONIA
Serbian Troops, Continuing Their Ad
vance Along the Broda River, Have
Reached Vicinity of Urbani.
Paris, Sept. 22. French and Serbian
troops, operating along the western end
of the Macedonian front have scored new
successes against the Bulgarians, the
war office announced to-day. Serbian
troops, continuing their advance along
the Broda river, have reached the neigh
borhood of Urbani, where 100 prison
ers were taken.
North of Fiorina the Bulgarians' at
tack was broken up by the French in
fantry fire. As the result of heavy en
gagements, the entente forces were able
to make progress on the heights domi
nating the road from Fiorina to Popilli.
BRITISH WARSHIPS
THROWING SHELLS
AT BULGARIANS
Positions in Vicinity of Nechori on East
Bank of Struma River Are
Being Bombarded.
London, Sept. 22. British warship
bave been bombarding Bulgarian posi
tions in the vicinity of Nechori on the
ast bank of the Struma, near its mouth,
northeast of Saloniki. the war office an
nounced to-day. On the left of the Brit
ish position on the Macedonian front,
in the Doiran region, an artillery duel of
increasing intensity is in progress.
MACKENSEN DEFEATED?
Famous German General Is in Retreat in
the East.
London. Sept. 22. Field Marshal von
Mackensen, Hindenburg' ablest lieuten
ant, conqueror of Serbia. ha been defeat
ed by the Rumanians and Russians in a
five-day battle in Dobrudja and i re
treatinjf with his tJerman. Turk and Bul
bar army toward the Bulgarian frontier.
wording to tJucnaresx a wraiwimni.
The peat battle, which wae the climax
of von Mackenn 'a swift campaign Im
mediately after Rumania's IH-lnrition of
war, began Sept. 13 and ended, )' Ru
manian headquarters. on the 2tH.
The German gene ml had swept through
the province Bulgaria lost in tho second
Balkan war. captured Danuhian fort -retses
hii'1 threatened t "it off a large
part of K u man inn territory.
After winning one heavy battle, he met
a large Russian nrniy sent down from
Bessarabia ami Rumanian reinforce
ments. Both Berlin and Solla admit a check in
ttiM region.
RUSSIANS TAKE
SMOTREC SUMMIT
Berlin Official Statement. Admitt Lost of
Position in Carpathians Fought
for Bitterly.
Berlin, via London, Sept. 22. Desper
at fighting between the Austro-German
and thci Russians in tlm Carpathian
mountain continue. The umiuit of
Smotree, which ha changed hands sev
eral times, hail again been captured from
the Germans by the Russians, nays to
day's German official statement. Fur
ther Russian attacks on Babaludowa
were repulsed.
BURNING VILLAGES.
As They Retreat After Defeat by the
Rumanians
Bucharest, Sept. 21. Via London,
Sent. 2'?. The official communication
from general headquarters issued to-day
said of the Dobrudja front:
"The battle which begun on the llWh
ended Wednesday (20th) with the defeat
of the enemy composed of German, Bul
garian and Turkish troops who retired
southward, burning villages in their re
treat." CLAIM MACKENSEN
GAINED VICTORY
Berlin War Office Declares That Russians
and Rumanians Were Defeated By
Encircling Movement.
Berlin, via London, Sept. 22. Bulga
rian and German troops under Field Mar
shal Von Mackcnsen have driven back
the Russians and Rumanians in Dobrud
ja in disorder, the war office announced
to-day. The victory was gained by
means of encircling the counter attack.
PLOT AGAINST VENIZELOS.
Guard About His House Increased
King's Palace Intrenched.
Milan, via London, Sept. 22 A Sa
loniki dispatch to the Secolo says:
"A conspiracy to kill Ehptherios en-
izelos has been discovered and the guard
of Cretans about his house has been aug
mented and friends accompanying the
ex-premier when he goes out.
Two lines of trenches have been built
around King Constantino's palace, which
is constantly guarded by large forces.
FARMERS' MASS MEETINGS
Are to Be Held in Several Vermont
Towns.
Laoonia, N. H., Sept. 22 Richard Pat-
tee of this city, secretary of the New
England Milk Producers' association,
Btated last night that he was sending no
tices to the directors of the association
to meet Saturday afternoon in Manches
ter, N. H.
The purpose is to consider wavs and
means of disposing of milk in the Boston
markets if the big contractors refuse to
pay 60 cents per eight and a half quart
can delivered in Boston on and after
Oct. 1.
It is probable that at the meeting com
mittees will be appointed to investigate
and arrange for the marketing of milk
in Boston, and a series of mass meetings
will probably be held in the milk-produc
ing centers of the New England states
and eastern New York.
Mr. Pattee further stated that he was
making arrangements for mass meetings,
probably next week, to be held in Con
cord, N. H., Bellows Falls, Rutland and
St. Johnsbury, t., Portland and Lewis
ton, Me., Worcester, Mass., and Eagle
Bridge, N. Y.
MONTPELIER
Candidates for Representative Nomina
tion Spent Total of $5.60.
Joseph G. Brown and William A. Lord,
Republican candidates for the nomina
tion of city representative, and S. H.
Mills, the Prohibition party nominee,
spent a total of $5.H0, according to their
statements filed to-dav with the city
clerk. Mr. Brown expended $2.10 for ad
g,.u .,u . reuL,,n,,,
mat Km, paid out $3 50 for stenographic ,
assistance end Mr. Mills had no expense.
vertising, Mr. Lord, who secured the nom-
In probate court to-day Mrs. Minnie
M. Brown of Waterbury settled her ac
count as guardian of Barbara S. Brown,
minor, and was released, the minor
having become of age.
Mrs. C. A. Stahl and daughter, Sarah
Stahl, who have been spending a week in
the city with relatives, left this forenoon
for their home in Boston.
At the Congregational parsonage on
Iomis street yesterday afternoon the
marriage of Albert J. Hinkson of Worces
ter to Miss Lillian E. Gonyo of North-
field took place, the ceremony being per
formed by Rev. Stanley F. Blomfield.
They will reside in Worcester. "
Mr. and Mrs. John Hall have gone to
North Adams, Mass., where the former
has secured a position, and they will
make their home there.
Herschal Cooney, daj ticket agent at
the Central Vermont station, who has
been taking a vacation, is confined to his
home by illness.
A son was born Tuesday at Heaton
hospital to Mr. and Mrs. Rollo G. Rey
nolds. Mr. Reynolds is executive clerk of
the state board of education.
Mrs. A. J. Taite. who has been visit
ing in the citv with relatives, left lat
evening for her home in Plainfield, N. J.
Tne first match game of the season ta
scheduled to occur to-night at the Im
perial howling alleys, the All Star team
having been challenged by the chauffeurs.
The local team will endeavor anon to ar
range (.-ainee with team representing
Barre, Burlington and St. Albans and a
trip to Haaoer( X. H-, is contemplated,
BANDITS KILL
BRITISH MEN
Two Were Taken from Their
Homes Near Tuxpam
and Shot to Death
36 OTHERS WERE
PUT TO DEATH
Raiders at Aquila Oil Camp
Called Themselves
Villistas
Galveston, Tex., Sept. 22.- Two British
subjects were taken from their home and
shot and .'id of a party of 3S Carranza
soldiers were killed in a raid Sept. 16 on
the Aquila oil camp near Tuxam by
bandit calling themselves Villistas, ac
cording to a report brought here to-day
by the steamer Topila from Tampion.
The Carrati7.istas put up a hard fight,
but were outnumbered and overpowered.
Two of their officers took refuge in the
house of an Englishman. They were dis
covered and put to death and the Eng
lishman was killed for having given them
shelter, it is said.
TREVINO CLAIMS
VICTORY WAS HIS
In Message to Consul General Burns in
New York He Says Villa Raid on
Chihuahua City Was for Ef
fect on New London
Conference.
New York, Sept. 22. In a telegram to
day to Juan T. Burns, consul general in
New York, General Trevino, after reiter
ating statements that his forces defeated
the Villa invaders at Chihuahua City,
says:
'"This foolish shedding of blood was
with the intention of creating difficulties
for the conferees at New Ixindon and the
machinations of American and Mexican
political interests. They themselves are
satisfied they have failed."
FUNSTON BELIEVES
VILLA VICTORIOUS
Places Full Credence On Report Sent to
the War Department by Brigadier-General
Bell.
San Antonio, Tex., Sept. 22. General
Funston said to-day that he placed full
credence in the report of Villa's attack
on Chihuahua City, sent to the war de
partment by Brigadier-General Bell, giv
en out yesterday. He said he had been
informed that General Bell's information
was gained from reliable persons who
had come to El Paso directly from Chi
huahua City immediately after the bat
tle. Washington, D. C, Sept. 22 The most
detailed account yet received of the
fight at Chihuahua City last Saturday
when Francisco Villa celebrated Mex
ican Independence day by a successful
assault on the Carranza garrison, reached
the war department yesterday from
Brigadier-General George Bell, command
ing the El Paso military district. It as
serts that Villa personally led the at
tack; that Villa took and held numer
ous important buildings for several
hours; that he was joined by a thous
and or more men of the Carranza gar
rison and retired promising to return
soon, and that he took with him a large
quantity of captured arms, ammunition
and artillery.
General Bell's dispatch does not show
the source of his information and many
officials believe it was founded on bor
der rumors. Reports received previous
ly conflicted as to the part Villa played,
not even agreeing that he was present.
No official would predict the effect the
incident might have on the negotiations
at New London. It was deemed certain,
however, that no agreement could be
reached there until it wag made clear
what the Carranza government would
do to oope with the new situation. Many
army officers still believe Villa either
is dead or his power so thoroughly brok
en that he can not hope to re-establish
himself. General Funston's recommen
dation that American troops be with
drawn is believed to have been founded
on that. view. If Villa did appear in
Chihuahua it is expected the
established definitely,
18 Pershing's
forces will be involved in new fighting
in Mexico, even if the most favorable
account for Villa of the Chihuahua bat
tle proves true. The nearest American
detachment is more than 100 miles north
of Chihuahua. No matter what suc
cesses they might achieve in surprise at
tacks on Carranza posts, the bandits
are not expected to risk an attack upon
the Americans and the Americans could
not go in pursuit of the raiders with
out new orders from Washington.
General Bell's report says the bandit
chief captured some of Carranza's ar
tillery at Chihuahua and 16 automobile
loads of arms and ammunition, liberated
200 prisoners from the penitentiary and
made off after being joined by from
1,000 to 1,300 soldiers of the Carranfa
garrison.
According to General Bell's informa
tion Villa himself went to the gover
nor's palace and made a speech from the
balcony after his forces had captured
the palace, the penitentiary and federal
buildings.
The report reveals a letter to General
Sept. 14, Villa sent a letter to General j
Trevino. commander at Chihuahua. Rav
ing he would he In the city at 3:30 p.
m. Saturday to 'shake hands."
General Bell expressed the opinion
that the raid was completely successful: a
and that Villa accomplished even more
than he Mid he would. Trevino'a per
sonal guard deserted him it appears and
in the confusion many govemmTit "1-
diera nere killed by their own com-
tasks.
LANSING DENIES
DISAGREEMENT WITH
WILSON'S ADVISORS
Over Legal Phases of Retaliatoty Legit
lation Aimed at Great Britain's
Interference with Trade.
Washington, P. C, Sept. 22. Seere
tary Uinwng to-duy announced as wholly
untrue the published reports that he an
President Wilson's political advisors ha
disagreed over legal phases of retalia
tory legislation aimed at Great llrltaiu
interference with trade, lie said ti
views of the state department regarding
legislation were not in shape to be ills
cussed. Some officials of the war do
partment believe part of the legislation
is of doubt till legality ana unentorciuie
SPENT ONLY $58.is.
Ben. Gates, Republican Nominee for Au
ditor, Files Statement.
Benjamin Gates, secretary of civil and
military affairs, and the Kcpuiiiican notn
inee for auditor of accounts, exm-ndi-
S5M.12 to secure the' nomination in the
primary election, having filed his state
incut with the secretary of state yester
duy afternoon. The Prohibition party
nominees filed their statements to-day
none of them spent anything
To-day is the final day allowed by the
statute for the nling of statements o
expense, and it is probable that before
the office closes to-night the statements
of Gov. Gates, Allen M. Fletcher, 1'nite.
States Senator Carrol! S. Page and John
E. Weeks will have, been filed.
HOWLAND FILES EXPENSE.
Candidate for Barre City Representative
' Spent $36.55.
Only one of the three oandida-tes for
city representative in the primaries of
Sept. 12 had filed his expense account
at the city clerk s office this afternoon
Ten days, the time required by statute
for making returns will expire to-night
Frank G. Howland, tne Republican nom
inee for the office, filed his statement
on the day succeeding the primaries.
According to his return the campaign
cost him $.1tl..r.V hether or not a can
didate has incurred any expense what
soever, he must make a return to the
city clerk, the statement to be sworn to
before a notary.
Expense Accounts of County Candidates,
The following expense accounts have
been filed by candidates for Washington
county nominations:
If. F. Hill, Republican, for senator. $2S.r!l
B. R. Demeritt. Republican, for sen. 27.14
F. E. Steele. Republican, for senator O.-M
E. B. House, Rep., for asst. judge. 2.f3
C. II. Dans, Rep., for asst. judge..
F. E. Gleason. Rep., for state's atty.
F. H. Tracy, 'Rep., for sheriff
.IS
4.0
.00
H. C. ShurtlefV, Dom., for state's
attorney ,. ..... ,. .2
A. W. Hewitt, Dem., for senator.. .0
The candidates on tUe Prohibition tick
et filed a statement that they had paid
nothing.
SCORE PARALYSIS
CASES IN VERMONT
Latest Reported Is That of Rudolph
Smith of Elmore There Have
Been Four Deaths.
Burlington, Sept. 22. Rudolph Smith
of Elmore ha a bad case of paralvsis.
The cases now number 20 in Vermont,
with four deaths. Mrs. Henrv Bartlett
of Underhill is among the late victims.
GUEST BROUGHT DISEASE.
Underhill Center Woman Thought
Have Infantile Paralysis.
to
Underhill Center, Sept. 22. Mrs. Hen
ry Bartlett was Stricken yesterday aft
ernoon with what is bcliev.-u to be in
fantile paralvsis, one side of her body
being paralyzed. It is thought that she
contracted the disease of people from
Massachusetts who are visiting the Bart
lett family.
FEWER CASES; MORE DEATHS.
Was Infantile Paralysis Story in New
York To-day.
,cw York, Sept. 'Sd. Twenty new
cases of infantile paralysis, seven fewer
than yesterday, were reported to the
health authorities to-day. There were
11 deaths, an increase of five.
MRS. GILLIGAN INDICTED.
Windsor, Conn., Woman Was Then Held
Without Bail.
Hartford, Conn., Sept. 22. Mrs. Amy
E. Arclicr-Gilligan. charged with poison
ing five inmates of her home for elderly
people at Windsor, was indicted late yes
terday for first degree murder.
1 he case was set tor l)eceinler. Mrs.
Gilligan pleaded not guilty and was re
manded to jail without bonds.
The state allcsres that Mrs. Gilligan
poisoned Mrs. Maude Lvneh of Lakeville
on Feb. 21, lPlti; Frank R. Andrews of
Cheshire. May 30. 1014; Charles A. Smith
of Waterbury, April 9. 1014; Michael W.
Gilligan, her second husband, Feb. 20,
1014, and Mrs. Alice Gowdv of Hartford,
Dee. 0, 1014.
Mrs. Gilligan was arrested in May,
charged with the mnrder of Andrews,
whose body had been exhumed, and the
state alleges that evidence of a powerful
poin was found in all the bodies. All
the deaths were at the Archer home.
Most of the inmates were admitted to
the home, the state claims, after con
tracts had been signed providing for life
care upon payment of lfH.
GIVEN $1,250 DAMAGES.
For
Fracture of One Leg at a
Bobin
Factory.
Brattleloro, scpt. 22. In the Wind
ham county court ye-terday afternoon
the jurv awarded Edgar D. Busbv of!
Wilmington, damages of S1.2."i in his ;
suit aesin-t the Deertield Lumber com-!
... . I
nanv ot WHmincton. runv susiainc i
fracture of .ne leg on entering a,
steam chet at the defendant's bobbin '
factory. He said he entered on orders, j
The comiwnv clim-d that he hud no
business to 'be where he w as at the '
time of the ace
dent. He sued for ".-
Oort, .
CAR ROUTES
LINED WITH
POLICEMEN
New York Police Depart
ment Sent Out Nearly
7,000 Officers to Guard
Against Mob Violence in
Case of a General Strike,
Being Called
LABOR LEADERS MEET
THIS AFTERNOON
To Decide Whether to Call
Out 700,000 Workers in a
Sympathetic Movement
with the Striking Car Men
Bombardment of Ele
vated Trains Keeps Up
New York, Sept. 22. Repeated threats
of a great general strike to help the
striking street car men caused all the
branches of the city government, charged
with enforcing the laws, to prepare to
day for outbreaks of mob violence. The
police department told the traction com
panies that they could re-establish night
service as soon as they were ready lin
er assurance of adequate protection.
Sixty-seven hundred policemen, fifty
others in automobiles and a hundred on
motorcycles were on duty along the car
routes.
Trade union leaders representing "00,
00 workers meet, this afternoon to de
cide whether to issue a call for a gen
eral strike.
Notwithstanding the heavy police
guard bombardments of elevated trains
continued this morning, bricks and bot
tles being thrown from house tops, shst
terering window and injuring several
passengers. Sixteen such attacks were
reported to the police.
Mayor Mitchel gave formal warning
last night that "full military and civil
powers" conferred upon him by law will
be used to prevent disorder in the event
of a general strike.
The mayors communication was ad
dressed to Hugh Frayne, chairman of the
conference committee of labor leaders,
after a final effort to arrange a peace
ful settlement had failed and after the
declaration was made that a general
strike was inevitable . The mayor de
clared that union officials who called
the strike would have to assume full
responsibility for all that might fol
low. 'The mavor, representing the civil
forces of government in this city," the
letter declared, "feels It Incumbent upon
him to say to you now before any fur
ther rash step is taken that these du
ties (to enforce law and maintain) the
itv government will discharge to the
full, employing, if need be, its entire
resources to that end. Disorder, as
saults and crimes of violence including
ninrv to innocent citizens such as
those of Tuesday and Wednesday will
be suppressed with strong hand and pun
ished w ith all the vigor at the command
of the government.
The communication, which was con
curred in by Oscar S. Straus, chairman
of the public service commission, re
iewed at length the causes that led to
the present crisis. It stated that the Jn
terborough Rapid Transit company
which operates the subway and eie
nted lines, violated a verbal agreement
with the labor leaders by refusing to
arbitrate issues arising subsequently to
the making ofUhe agreement. It stated.
too. that employes of the ew tone
Railways company and other surface
lin affected by the strike were guilty
f a breach of contracts they had made
with their employers which ended a tie
up on the surface roads in July.
TOOK POISON.
When Wife's Divorce Suit Was About
to Be Called.
St. Albans. Sept. 22. Frank M Morse
of North Main street. Central ermont
railway conductor, was taken to the hos
pital late yesterday afternoon in a se
rious condition from the effects of poison
self-administered, it is aid. Mr. Morse
nd his wife have not been living to
gether lately and Mrs. Morse's petition
for divorce is set for trial at the present
term of Franklin county court. 11.
Levan and family have been living
with Mr. Morse and it was Mrs. Levan
who discovered Mr. Morse's condition.
The information obtainable at the hospi
tal was that Mr. Morse was a little more
comfortable. It is reported that the
oison was bichloride of mercury.
BURLINGTON MAN HONORED.
H. H. Ross Active Member for Life in
Masonic Order.
Pittsburz. Pa., Sept. 22. The 104th
nmial m-cting of the supreme council.
:id degree. A. A. S. N. M. J., closed
its session yesterday afternoon, alter
jostponine action on the foundation for
Masonic benevolence and charities until
next year, when the jubilee meetings of
the two jurisdictions will be held in New
York. Solon Stevens ot .oton. who tor many
years was organist of the supreme coun-
id and who was unable to attend the
- . t - i. - j
s - sun iruw wit n-a -'
the unusual distinction oi oeing maa.-
prand reanist emTitus.
To honorary members after beinc
d.ilv elected wrre aiade active momVrs
f the council for life. They are: Hen-
ry H. Ks. t.urlinitton. t.; ts.rge I.
Holn;e, iTunsonce, a. u
ENTERTAINMENT WELL ATTENDED
"Our Church Fair" Freirnted and Was
Followed by a Dance,
"Our Church Fair," a comedy gixen in
two parts under the direction of the la
dies of the Church of the Good Shep
herd last evening at Howland hall and
the sale during the afternoon and even
ing, proved to be a great eiicceaa ill every
way. The sale was an attraction for
shoppers all afterni'ou, as the booths
were, crowded from the time the sale
started until the supper hour; ami
throughout the evening, the ladies, who
acted as saleswomen had a regular Sat
urday night mob to contend with. The
handkerchief and hand bag booths prob
ably were of the most interest to the
women ln were shopping during the
afternoon, but after the young people
commenced to assemble in the evening
hour, the committee at the ice cream
tiooth did a large business until the
da nee was over.
The committee on the various booths
were as follows: At the handkerchief
booth, Mr. Frank Robinson, Mrs. Frank
Howland. Mrs. William Black and Miss
Gertrude Mackie; at the handbag booth,
Mrs. W. E. Gilbert, Mrs. Arthur I Bul
lock and Mrs. John Vaughan; at the
ice crenm booth, Mrs. A. Emslie, Mrs.
James Given and Mrs. W. Gilbert.
The play, which was the feature of
the entertainment, was a pretty little
comedy in tuo parts Willi about a dozen
ladies participating. I tie Idea ot me
play was t impersonate the gathering
of the members of a church society to
sew and make articles for sale in order
to obtain the required funds to buy the
church a new carpet, the scene being in
a country village in tne imys ui iui
a generation ago. Too much praise
cannot be given to the niemliers who
acted the parts, as they showed a good
deal of diligent training and hard work
in mastering colloquial expressions which
were continually brought into the dia
logues of the good-natured bits -of sar
casm and personal hits that created a
roar of laughter all through the play.
Between the first and second acts, a
piano duet was played by the Misses
Rachel Cutler and Beatrice Papin.
After the play a dance was in order,
with an orchestra composed of Miss Bes
sie Spear and Messers. Gilbert and Ri
ley. Many of the older folks stayed
and danced a while. The dance was en
joyed by about fifty couple, who stayed
until i o'clock, carrying out a very de
lightful program.
HAD ANNIVERSARY IN BARRE.
Chelsea Ten Pin Club Motored Where
They Had Driven Horses 5 Years Ago.
Over the same route which the original
members of the organization traveled
when the club was formed a quarter-century
ago, the members of the Ten Pin
club of Chelsea motored to Barre yester
day in celebration of their 2:th anniver
sary. They spent the day in shopping
ami looking over the city, noting inci
dentally some of the marked changes
that have taken place since the initial
visit of the club. Business men of Chel
sea, some of whom vented their gentle
sarcasm on the members of the club when
its ten charter members returned home
one day in 1801 by designating them
as the tin pin club, saw to it that ample
motor transportation was provided, and
before their departure for home they
were given a trip through the quarry
region. Around 2." were in the party
that took dinner at Hotel Barre.
The purchase of ten silver pins by
each woman who made up the party 25
years ago cave rise to the nickname,
tin-pin club. Later, as time worked a
gradual but sure transformation on the
club, it became the Ten Pin club, and
under that banner the women have
achieved much in the way of civic im
provement. Chelsea folks will tell you
that the Ten Pin club, object of tender
derision in its cradle days, is responsible
for the really beautilul decorations in
the new town building, that the women
of the club are to be credited with pro
viding the village with up-to-date ce
ment walks, and that they are the au
thors of many little deeds of kindness
that were never advertised. The women
folks and their men attendants had a
good time in Barre yesterday, enjoyed
themselves thoroughly, and vowed they
would celebrate the next anniversary in
much the same .way, unless they were
allowed to differentiate in the mode of
travel by using flying machines. Several
of the women who came to tovn yester
day were of the original ten who drove
to'Barre in 1801.
The party of yesterday included, among
others, the following: Mr. and Mrs.
Stanley C. Wilson, Mrs. F. L. Beck with.
Miss Vera Beck with, Mrs. Rose Bixby,
Mrs. Annie PerCins, Mrs. L. J. Tracy,
Mrs. Florence Burvfess, O. D. Tracy, Mrs.
E. A. Lewis. Mrs. B. H. Adams, Miss
Lora Hood. .Mrs. W. A. Hood, Mrs. Hale
K. Darling. Mrs. (. E. Burgess, Mrs.
Emma Lev is, Mrs. Marv Beckwith, Mrs.
H. O. Bixby, Mrs. G. A. '"Busk, Mrs. H. R.
Wishart and Mrs. 1). G. Stoughton.
A short time ago many of the men
and women in the foregoing list gave
Barre people a hearty welcome on the
occasion of a better acquaintance tour
to Chelsea, organized by the Barre Board
of Trade.
PLAINTIFF AWARDED $202.
In Case of Hattie Gordon vs. Peter Ba-
dord in County Court.
Arguments were commenced in Wash
ington county court this forenoon in the
case of Hattie Gordon vs. Prter Badord.
trespass, the trial of which started
Wednesday afternoon. Attorney John
W. Gordon of Barre represents flic plain
tiff and Harry C. Sluirtleff made the
ilosng argument for the defendant.
The ea?e went to the jury late in the
forenoon and the jury returned thi- aft
ernoon with a verdict for the plaintiff to
recover $202.
Following t!:at. the iae of Ne'lie II.
Morse, executrix, against Fred A. Jewett.
general assumpsit, wr.s started, a jury
being drawn this !trnii. i'lumley
and White represent the plaintiff and
N. G. Ierv of Burlington and Charles
Adonis of Waterbury. the defendant.
The jir-neral au-npit e of Quarry
Savings Bank A Trust Co. vs. Cl arte- B.- ,
iatuhi & Son. as crtensl to d.v wit-i,
the elerk. K. I Scott aj pears fr the
I laintiff.
FOUR MONTHS;
ILLEGAL SALE
Mrs. Selina Albano Sen
tenced to House Cor
rection To-
V"
ownershhfbeer
cau's discord
Attorneys for State and De
fense to Fight It Out
Before Court
A maximum sentence of seven months
in the house of correction at Rutland,
with a minimum of four months, was im
MiM'd on Mrs. Selina Albuno by Magis
trate II. W. Scott in city court this aft
ernoon after a hearing on a charge of
selling liquor illegally, Mrs. Albano was
arrested Monday after her premises at
the corner of Quarry and South Main
streets had liecn raided for alleged con-
tralwnd goods, two dozen bottles of beer
being seized. After sentence had been
passed to-day, attorneys for the prose
cution and defense locked horns on the
ownership of the beer and it was decided
to have a hearing on the seizure later in
the day.
Contradictory statements were made
by Mrs. Harry Mason, who said she got
a dozen bottles of beer at Albano's and
left a dollar for eggs. Her husband,
Harry Mason, who was committed to
county jail from Barre this week on an
Intoxication charge, told of buying liquor
from the respondent and said he became
intoxicated Saturday on beer which came
from her place. At this juncture, his
mother-in-law, Mas. Charles Smith, who .
lives with the Masons at 0 Quarry street,
shouted "Liar!" but was promptly si-
lenced by the court. Mason said he had
experienced trouble with his wife and
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. lharles .'smith.
Mrs. Smith testified, briefly, that she did
not know her daughter got beer at Al
bano's until she returned from the re
spondent's house one day. It came out
in the testimony that one of the wit
nesses secured beer for a man named Joe
Cohen. Mrs. Albano took the stand and
denied havijig figured in any beer tran
saction. The Albano woman resided in the
house on Webster avenue where E. Al
bano, her husband, participated in a
shooting affray last summer. Later he
was captured in New York. Mrs. Albano
has been living on the Quarry street cor
ner for several weekB.
MET AT WILLIAMST0WN.
Woman's Relief Corps with Many Dele
gates and Visitors.
The district meeting of the Woman's
Relief corps was held with William
Wells corps. No. 75, of Williamstowu
Thursday. There are-five corps in the
district and there were present 31 from
Brooks corps of Montpelier, 24 from
Morrill corps of Cabot, 25 from Stowe
corps of Calais, three from F'zra Stet
son corps of Waterbury Center, three
from H. C. Freeman corps of Brook
field and one from Hardwic.k, with 22
from William Wells corps of Williains
town. The last named corps furnished
an excellent dinner and Brooks corps
exemplified the ritual and service book.
There were present three department
officers, the department president, Hel
n E. Bonnett from Concord, who in
spected the work of the order; May K.
Colby, department inspector oi jiouviei
ier, who acted as installing officer, and
Emma Lapomt, department cnapiam
from Barre, who responded to the ad
dress of welcome which was given by
Ellen Briggs, president of the Williams
town Relief corps. This corps has re
cently taken in several new- members
and is in a prosperous condition.
A few comrades from Brooks post and
William Wells post were present. All
enjoyed the day and a hearty vote of
thanks was extended the Williamstown
ladies for their cordial welcome and
generous entertainment.
BURIAL AT HOPE CEMETERY.
And Funeral of Mrs. Annie R. Mackenzie
Was Held Thursday Afternoon.
Funeral services for Mrs. Annie R.
Mackenzie, whose death at her home, 9
Beckley court, Tuesday morning fol
lowed a long illness, were held at the
house Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Rev. Edgar Crossland. pastor of the
First Presbyterian church, officiating.
The bearers were: John Mackenzie and
Alec Mackenzie, sons of the deceased,
and Louis A. Bottiggi and Egidio J.
Rnlfo. sons-in-law of Mrs. Mackenzie.
During the services Miss Alice Walker
sang. "Iad, Kindly Light." and "Nearer
My God to Thee." There were many
floral tributes. Interment was made in
Hope cemetery.
ELOPED TO VERMONT
When Girl's Parents Refused Permission
for Marriage.
Whitinsvillc. Mass.. Sept. 22.-Miss Vi
ola Beauregard, daughter of Mr. and
Mr- Eugene Beauregard. Mam street,
and Victor Ro-ott?. son of Mr. and Mrs
nlier Rogotte. Cross sireev . -Rockdale.
eloK-d to Bellows rails. t,
jesterdav. Mis Beauregard was IS last
Monday 'and Ropotte is 21.
R..jr,.itc is a butcher, and yesterday
niorn.ng told his employer he was goin
to ho married. He started off in hia
l.utcher frock, mectinc his intended bride
f the mill tate of the Paul Whitin Man-
ul.KtiiiinC company.
here she was em-
1 loved.
Thc two stepped into a waiting
,l,ile and with a friend ot tne
i;rom started for Vermont.
I'p to six months ago. the. two had
kept company. He was refused the con
tf the bride's parents to marriage
becau-c of th- a.'- of the girl. Her par
ents r- fii" I to let thei see each other.
bv.t it is said that they corresponded
ikiuUfcli a Irked.
