NEW MEXICO STATE RECORD
$1.50 A YEAR.
SANTA FE NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1916.
NUMBER 104
DEMOCRATIC
FUSION FAILS IN
FIVE COUNTIES
EFFORT TO SPLIT REPUBLI
CANS OF SANTA FE ON
STATE TICKET IS A FAIL
URE MORA COUNTY
PAT AS USUAL
candidate for congress. It lias been
disclosed that the two democratic
politicians are not making many
speeches. They are working at an
effort to get some semblance of a
democratic organization started in
i the two counties. The reports of
their progress are calculated to cause
j sorrow to the democratic managers,
jfor they have met with no luck at all.
!ln Taos county the lines are solid
and there have been soi.ic important
I accessions since the democratic slate
convention made its list of unfortu
nate selections, while in Rio Arriba
county Sunday, one of the old-time
democratic leaders, living at Park
View, announced that he was tired
working with the party of disorgan
ization and no results and that he
I was from now on a republican. He
aid to have wide influence and
JUDGE POPE LAID
TO REST IN FAIR
VIEW CEMETERY
the elders of the First Prysbetcrian
church.
Floral tributes came from the state
I3ar association, a pillow of chrysan
themums with the inscription, "Most
Just" in blossoms: front the Santa Fe
bar, a gorgeous cover of orchards,
'ilies and gladioli; from the fellow-
ship class of Judge Pope's, a magnif-
'icient floial curiam ; from the bar
EVERY SECTION OF STATE of Colfax county, a shield with the
REPRESENTED BY MEM- i inscription 'Law Lght": from the
OP TTTlf RAP AKTV1'"'"" CU'"y hT' a" a,,c,lori from
OJT THE BAK AND tne various Masonic bodies, the Ma-
OTHERS WHO KNEW AND sonic emblems of immortality in
I flowers, and from other bodies and
officials wreaths and other appro
priate designs.
LOVED HIM
"GOING TO DO A
CERTAIN THING
THAT WILL WIN"
WAS IT A POLITICAL FRAME-
UP OR JUST A
DENCE? WJ
IT? WHY?
B. M. CUTTING OUTVOTED: majority ill Rio Arriba county,
Every section of New Mexico was
represented among those who Sun
day afternoon paid their last tribute
to Fi'lli'ral llllh.e Wi1li:int H Pnnp
to be worth an additional hundred , iri,. .. . ,
, . ... rlowers rare and and sweet-sccnt-
votes to the already huge republican ! ,A .. . . .
Tt- 1 ed in almost measureless profusion
The nation naturally continues to
ask itself what could have caused
Preidcnt Wilson to adopt so extraor
dinary and unprecedented a course
in dealing with the railway wage
Taos. N. M., Sept. 19-Frank A. ! question. What is back of it ? Why
Hubbell. H. O. Rursuni and 15. C. Her-U'"' n iro!1(IS1' :"!" ,M:,sl ,nat- w,ul
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES
PLEASED WITH TRIP
tates was reported, and was found
to be almost unanimous in favor ot
an investigation by the Interstate
Commerce commission. The C"liam-
tier of Commerce resolution was sent !
to President Wilson. He ignored it.j
It was presented in congress. Chair-'
'man Adamson of the bouse commit
I tee on Interstate and Foreign Com-i
' inorce is a close political friend ami
isunnorter of President Wilson On
COINCI-jjuly 12 Mr. Adamson arose in hi.,!
DENCE? WHAT IS BACK OP J l,act " explained that he was op ,
posed to the 4 hatnber of Commerce
resolution because he and Mr. Maim, j
the republican leader, had investi- ,
gated to see whether there would be
any strike. "I will nut say where we '
went," he added, "but we were as-J
surod by the representatives of the
employees that there would be no j
walkout ,and they did not mean to'
stop the wheels." Mr Maun prompt
NEW ENGLAND
NOW SOLID FOR
REPUBLICANS
NOT EVEN CONNECTICUT IS
FIGHTING GROUND. PRO
GRESSIVES PRACTICAL
LY ALL BACK IN G. 0. P.
MASSACHUSETTS AND
NEW HAMPSHIRE
WHEN j Probably the most serious situa-
jtion tne repunncans nave nan to con-
HE SEEKS ENDORSEMENT; front in republican counties has
Ibecn that Sandoval county, where
lscnahacio Montoya, the nominee
for state corporation commissioner
on the democratic ticket was thought
te hnvi a ronsidernhl follruiMm Tn
TWENTY TO ONE
OF M. A. OTERO AND DEM
OCRATIC STATE TICKET
Tremendous efforts put forward
by the democratic campaign mana
gers to effect fusion line-ups in five
New Mexico counties have failed in
.every case and failed with a com
pleteness which has discouraged the
democratic campaign managers !rom
further serious attempts of the kind.
The catastrophe to the democratic
fusion scheme in Santa Fe county is
now a matter of history. It was
wreck of plans laid at great care and
with r.o little preliminary expense,
and the wrecking was spectacular m
the extreme.
By working on an aroused local
sentiment concerning county affairs
the democratic campaign managers
brought about a strong alignment of
independent republicans, progre. ;s
ives, etc, with' the few democrats
who live in Santa Fe county. They
held a convention in the state- capi
tol and nominated I county ticket
which is not without elements of
strength Thus far the scheme went
welt.
But the real object of the whole
bogie undertaking was to secure a re
pudiation by the independents of the
republican state ticket. That is the
main and only reason the convention
was held This the two hundred re
publican delegates sitting in the con
vention flatly refused to do. Col.
Bronson M. Cutting, the ambitious
young millionaire owner of the Santa
Fp New Mexico, who asserts him
self to'be a supporter of Charles K.
Hughes for president, and who is do
ing his utmost to defeat Hughes in
New Mexico, made a vehement fight
against the adoption of resolutions
unequivocally endorsing both the na
tional and state republican tickets.
He had but eight votes with him and
the resolutions as adopted are as
hearty and as loyal to both state and
national candidates as the most e
I the democratic convention democrats
Ijoyfully told each other that Monto
ya, who is a freighter by profession,
bad a following of 400 votes. It now
develops that this following, if it
ever existed, has dwindled down to a
mere score of near relatives and em
ployes. The county, it is now cer
tain, will deliver its customary re
publican majority for the whole -t.-te
ticket.
While some further efforts may be
made among democrats to stir up
ii.. .i ...... i. i it i . .!
. i , ..l i: :t1cf;,,i,;,.. r.f Hm ' m:iiicu inai ne nan lano'l will
l.nn. l.anr... , 1. 1.1:..,... . 1 .Ul I itllV l.lll'llt. ill.llVIK1'!' '" " 1V
attested how near to the hearts of I . V ,c f . I ..;. ;.oW,.d ,, radwavs representative,
., . , . ncKei, compiciea an au-oay urmng i - J Ti,
many the eminent lurist had come.: .. . . . ' L. ... . :.., ; 1 "c
. , ... . ,. . .speaking trip through nearby pre-, "" mui.i i. ... s i,i,.
In harmony with the s.llinic.lv (if i . . ' ' 1 I ....... ... -- :u: r . Llkeil
', . . ' ' 'cmcts today, and will leave tomor-! amounting in many nuns ""-
ins uie huh cumiuci mere was
ostentation
nics.
At the house,
the funeral ceretno-
w here
of the employee
strike vote v.a, actual! being
and yet rept csertativr ; of
administratii
brotherhood;
n and h a.'c
continued tc
ave tomor- "'"" " ' '.i.
mi i ... i. ... i i . . i l . t.:i. i "
.. ... ... . I'jrs rn mi-n wi n ' ri' I v r L' i
iuw imtriuiigi lor uuauaiupc county,, J . thv
: i i a,, . . , .ia ai,l ..,rliii(Tiiii.n ill Ameriea?!
e.Miig mei.ee io Muuqucrque. wnere r" ' , " . . , ' lout statements that thev
. . thev ivi sneni severa i :ivs at the " umuen win in. ..n... . . . ..
IIIIII...IC . v , .
friends ann associates came tn gaze j c
for the last time upon those bcloveH ! - ... . . . n t...,i t,nn rrivo " reason to.
, , , . . . . oi tne rentimican cnitntirn ot north- vulctl '" rt 1,im" 4i . . ,
UK I
WW i'f nn'i-
i i i -i
led on to the consuming puhlic. Why!
i 4L , i (nic spokesman of the a!nfnitr:t-
SO STRONGLY REPUBLICAN
THAT THEY ARE "LOP
SIDED," AND ONLY DIFFI
CULTY WILL BE TO GET
THE VOTE OUT
dent that there
features, even youthful and beautiful
strong men were unashamed as they
turned away.
From the residence on east Palace
avenue, a house the deceased had
delighted to call home and where he
tended the many flowers of his own
planting, with such solicitude, the
remains were taken to the church
which had been a second home to
him. There the pastor, Rev. B. 7..
McCollougih repressing his emotion
witti rtiffiilttv ntiifl a nrtrtuntiir fri-
trouble in republican county conven- hu,e , Judge pope
One who never turned his hack, but
ttons, the miserable failure of the
five biff fusion schemes on which
they based their brightest hopes has
put an end to any hope for results
from that method and it is said the
managers have determined to re
turn to work among their own peo
ple, in effort to save something out
of the wreck of the democratic par
ty in southern New Mexico and to
try to heal the bitter differences
which have ripped the Pecos Valley
democratic stronghold asunder.
marched breast forward,
Never doubted clouds would break,
Never dreamed, tho' right were
worsted, wrong would triumph,
Held we fail to rise, are baffled to
fight better.
Sleep to wake."
It was toward evening that tthc
cortege wended its slow way to Fair
view cemetery. Clouds had been pil
ing tip in the sky during the after-
republican counties of north
ern New Mexico, has turned out
large audiences for every meeting
and the campaigners express them-
selves as being well satisfied with
their reception and with the county
situation.
Last night, following a hand con
cert and parade of the recently or
ganized republican club of Taos, be
tween 700 and 800 people packed the
Taos courthouse to hear the speak
ers. Mr. Hubbell in bis address dwelt
upon the importance of the livestock
industry of the state, emphasizing
the need of the wool-gathering in
dustry for protection.
Mr. Hernandez continues to attack
the administration on its Mexican
policy. Mr. Bursum is sticking to
state issues.
From Taos the party leaves for
Las Vegas, which they expect to
reach Wednesday evening., and the
following morning will leave on a
speaking tour in Guadalupe county.
llir lailli
consuming public without giving that
public any chance, directly or indi
rectly, to he heard?
We do not intend to make any
charges against Mr. Wilson. We do
intend, however, to present a series
of facts, the knowledge of which has
forced us to reach certain conclu
sions regarding his conduct, and
and which we are confident will
cause most of those who are in
formed of them to draw from th.
same conclusions that we have
Some of the facts which we will
that was in them
of the brotherhood s;;id th
sure there would be no strike because
the railways would yield.
II. A. Wheeler, chairinau oi
In rbalkiiK.' t.i t!.e political map of
the eastern section of the country,
all New F.nland is now of whatever
.t... i t.
y were uue inai is nseii m T-n-i-e repuo-
lican territory, am! harmonizes with
'the color scheme of the great north
,.e!wcst at this time. The political car-
railroad committee of the Chamber j '"graphers were Put waiting tor
of Commerce of the touted States, J Mainp to fi" a'"' now that " done
finally sent direct to President Wil-i Massachusetts, it is generally con
son a long, telegram pressing uponce,lcd' wiU P heavily republican, the
him the seriousness of the situation i estimated majorizes ranging a!l the
and urging action on the Chamber of i way from 50.000 to 100,000, dependent
Commerce resolution. This, appar- lP" ,lle interest shown by the vot
ently, was received at the White ' cr'i oi" to ,,,e P"s- New Hamp
House in the same cool spirit as alli'!nire and Vermont are solidly re
other renresentations fr.,m the publican, as is Rhode Island. While
present already have been published. iQiamber of Commerce on the sub- 'democratic managers claim that Con
Others have not been. It is those ject Incetictit is fighting ground, republic
which have not been which are the vinulu. . ,,. f. 'can investigators who are keeping a
most important in this connection ishcd U was to be presented to the
because without them the chain of i . ... ., ... ,, I
incom- ; , u
ui suuai u.
circumstantial evidence is
ion the evening of August , the
BURTON TO SPEAK
FOR REPUBLICANS
AT STATE FAIR
noon but the setting sun broke jThey have been requested to hold a
through them triumphantly with a 'meeting at Las Vegas while there,
message of hope and light. The ce-;but will probably not be able to meet
l emony at the grave was brief. Lit- j the desires of the club there, as they
erally buried in flowers rests the will arrive late and leave early on
rect testimony may lie, while circum
stances do not lie.
This controversy between the rail
ways and the labor brotherhoods is
. J 1 . T . 1 .
eminent jurist in the same God's their regular itinerary, which brings ""l "rw
arre with ,n.niv asneiMes whom he them hack to that eonntv Liter vear a'- " wns "'ready acute MV
had known well in life and who , Sec Romero Joint Party
preceded him to the beyond. To i The latest report by phone from
bis left sleeps c:-Oovernor William! the party received at 9 o'clock this
T. Thornton: across the way Abram (Wednesday) evening is that the
plete, while with them supplied it
seems to be complete. The courts
sometimes nave neiu u.ar crenm- ; Ncw york a whicll
stant.al evidence may sometimes b adurMwd by SOIm. morc or lcs, ,,,s.
more conclusive than direct evidence, j tim,uishl.j s,)Cakers. Ilut tMc most
because the witnesses who give di- mark(.d succcss of tl cvcaillg was
careful tab on conditions report to
their headquarters that the state is
, 1. 1 ,
-i if a. limy 1 1 mini n,i u.
I wo days before.i
In Massachusetts the situation
might be called "lopsided," and sr
much so that the republicans feet
that it will be necessary to do some
thing later to stir the voters to come
out on election day. ' The only dan
ger in sight would be one of possible
months ago. When the brother-' ,, C)f Ncw York,
hoods announced they were gomgi
a speech by Dudley Field Malone. j
. i i . .i . . i overconfidenee on the part of the re
.'wv , iii. naj mi 'v s"i'i I
representative of President Wilson
at the inauguration of the president
of Cuba and, by President Wilson's
M r. Malone
demand a basic eight-hour day the v maud of the brotherhoods. When
began by saying they would not ar-'Mlone's speech was read by rail-
publicans, leading, to negligence on
election day.
The progressives in Massachusetts'
long ago returned to the republican':
also advocated the eght-hour day de- ,,. . . , , . .''.""
, ... i . i i Sunnier Bird, helped in Maine last-
ICAN POLICIES AND DEM
OCRATIC BLUNDERS
BRILLIANT ORATOR WIIL! every uireenon one ( raiiflidates Have reached Las Vegas
rTOTTce nDnom lr , ...-.. v.. ;ani ivi r. nuuneii is givmcr a supper
DISCUSS PRESIDENT WlL- who walked life with him part way, there at the Castcnada in order to
SON'S FOREIGN AND MEX-!"1'1 arc sill'nt,.v awaitinis the;mePt a number of the lorat eommit-
j iv.n iniiiiu. iu me t..M aim inn in teemcn miring their short stay,
j loom the majestic masses of the About forty are in attendance.
Illlood of Christ mountains which , Messers. H. O. Bursum and Secundum
called to him even on his deathbed Rnmero are the "nets nf hmmr
I i in far-away Atlanta, when he said: Mr. Romer0 will accompany the
The republican state committee "I wish I had a drink of the ice cold j party to Guadalupe county and later
I has just been advised from national waters on the other side of the Lake, to all precincts of San Miernel and
acting among them could desire. The j headquarters in New York City thatipeaks. That would quench my j Mora counties, and assist in putting
Ohio I thirst." To the south stretch the n the camnaien for rccord-hreakinir
I flower bespangled plains. It is a I majorities in those counties for the
! place ot rare beauty and ot marvel-. entire ticket and particularly for
bitrate, but would tie up all the
transportation litie of the country
of the companies did not concede
what thev wanted. The rriilwms
result of the convention will be a; Senator Theodore Burton of
fight over the local county ticket, j will be the first of the republicans of
with the regular republicans certain . national note to tour New Mexico in
of victory, and the normal, or better behalf of the republican national and.ous vistas and it was Judge Pope's Bursum, whose opponent is a politi-
than the normal republican majori-state tickets. Senator Burton wi'l j unshakeable belief that some day he.cally unpopular candidate there,
ties for the national and state repub- deliver his opening address at the j would again gaze upon his beloved!
lican tickets in Santa Fe county. j state fair grounds in Albuquerque j Santa Fe, for up to the moment that
In San Miguel county demoeratic ,jnn Monday afternoon, September 25. be entered the valley of the shadow
fusion plans have blown up without at 2:30 o'clock, being the first speak- he had the faith: j
even a loud noise. A. A. Jones has er on the state fair management's."! SCe my way as birds their track-
ROSWELL MEET
, OF DEMOCRATS
A BIG FROST
were determined to give them noth
ing without arbitration. d wri-,
therefore foreseen from the start hv
all close observers that the dane;
therefore, foreseen from the slart by
all close observers that the danger
of a terrible strike wns real and se
rious. The railways spared neither
effort nor money to get this fact lie
fore the administration. Concrress
;anrl the public. But the administra
tion and congress were apathetic.
I T...ln r t r-i t r . - . t
j.m.-.i- tv. i.. i.iiamiK rs oi in' ietier.il
mediation and conciliation board,
even gave out statements to the ef
fect that this body was watching de
velopments and was confident there
would be no strike.
The chamber of commerce of the
United States, the greatest ore-nirea-
tion of business interests in the
country, became concerned about the
1 situation, and submittal to its ei i
way officers there was considerable!
consternation among them. Did lie
express the views of the admiuist ra
tion? The railway officers made one
answer tluu which w:is creditable
to the rectitude and fairness of Pres
ident Wilson. They don't answer the
same way now.
The next day was Augiust 7. On
that day a man in Washington who
week to bring in the lagging pro
gressives there Nf;ithew Hale, the
only bull moose holding out. was at
democratic national headquarters re-i
eently conferring with Chairman Wc
Corniiek lie realizes that the lull
moose support of the democratic
ticket in Massachusetts will he of
negligible effect.
Next week's primaries in Massa
chusetts for the selection of candi
dates is largely a rtit-aml-dried af
is usually wen mtormea reyaruing fnir ; advance.' Gov. MeCall is nn
what is going on behind the scenes opposed for the nomination for gOT
in that city wrote a remarkable let- frnor. T!e democrats have two as
ter to a prominent business man in ; p;rnnN for w h;lt promi!! to he an
New York remarkabie because of cnipty honor .since Coy . MeCall's re
the accuracy with which it forecast election seems assured. Gen. Chas.
subsequent developments. A copy of JT Cole has the backing- of the demo
cratic machine. Fred W. Manfield
is supposed to be the favorite of the
used there all bis prayerful clo-. forum proeram. He will be followed j less way. i
qnence and persuasive powers and later in the afternoon by a demo-If shall arrive what time' what eir-'
the whole box of democratic tricks crat from another state, who will Cuit first,
has been unloosed. The demoeratic probably be Senator Owen from Ok-jl ask not: but tinbss God sends hi
state organization has done its best. lahoma. j hail j
iz nas seore.i anniner nai ana some i .-senator mirron Is well Known injdr blinding fire-balls, sleet or sti-'
what ignominious failure, since it has , Ncw Mexico. He toured this state flint? snow, I
been unable even to get a fair start.jin the preconvention catnpaicn and i In some time, his irood time, I shall !
Some small encouragement had been made many friends at that time. Tt j arrive; i
held out to the fusion workers priorjis indicated that he is to be followed ;He guides me and the bird. .In His I
to the nomination of E. C. de Baca!by several of the biggest men in the j good time." i
for frovernor on Governor McDon-j republican party and that among j To witness devout Catholic and
aid's understudy ticket. But sinrr 'these may be former President Wm. ,' zealous Protestant stand totrether at is.ww.ial :.,. p,.,.t
mat time tne nitter personal opposi-. latt ana Lot. meoriore Koosevett. ;the bier to say their prayers: to! Roswell. N. M.. Sept. 20. 191..! rlo,lc. Kral'u tmei or tne r.rotner- hnaru of mediation and control (cw,-
non tone naca in nts nome county it is especten mat t.oionei Kooe-watch political adversaries hand in The democrats nulled off a meetin" i-oionioiivc engineers, anu cHiation), thus giving the picsnlent
i . f e- j i , f r . , , t . . . . . ... ' Sitt: r" T .,A : i . r . i. n,i 1 ...
hers a resolution asking tin- presi
LEADING CANDIDATES RANT dent and congress to cause an inves
AND SCOLD. BUT MAKE NO ligation of the e.uire wage situation
Vnn . interstate Commerce commis-lfa! out of the difficulty
- sion. Meantime, on April V. meeting!
I of members of the labor brother
GOOD ARGUMENT
THEIR ELECTION
.hoods were held at St. Loins t,
which addresses were made by W.
this letter was handed to us on Au
gust 8, and we kept it to see Iija
good a prophet the writer of it was.
We quote from this letter as follows:
"1 believe there is an understand
ing between Gonipers, l ead of t!ie
American Federation of Labor, and
the Administration, that this strike
which is threatened will not hurt the
administration. I am further given
to understand that Compers has as
sured the president that an opportu
nity wi!l he given him 'o make eani-
This is to
bo done in this way: The men are to
re.iert all comj romise offe.'S by ihe
railroads: they are to look askar.ee
on the mediation ottered hv ti
has soldified republican lines and has,ve!t, if his schedule can be properly
brought about a democratic indiffer- arranged, will deliver two and possi
ence which has rendered further ef-ibly three addresses in Ncw Mexico,
forts in San Miguel county useless, inn his way through his western tour.
The Mora county fusion also had iin behalf of Charles E. Hughes.
something of a start, through local
differences of a wholly local nature.
But de Baca's nomination by the
The state committee is making
careful preparation for the reception
and entertainment of Senator Bur-
fand tn the presence ot death; to nere a,t night which proved a frost. f ulc Dllltr- a cnance to intervene personally aej
see an entire commonwealth join in p.. C. De Baca, W. C. McDonald, and1"""1 of Rai,wav Trainmen. At one bring both sides to the White Hou-e.
tribute to one man, is indeed in-'M. A. Otero were all here andthcviof ,licse mcetinl?, DOth and The proposition which he will subr it
spiring and an incentive to live upjwcre honored by a house about half. r anc nc sa'omr"t ,n1t they.w.H in all probability be accepted ly tie interest outside the contest over
10 me nin nieais inai always an-,11111. De liaca declared he was sorry! . . s .- . s. ,,, wuhihk mc tne governorship ami the fight 10
labor element.
Senator Lodje to Be Choten
Sen it'.r Lodge is unopposed f,,i the
republican senatorial nomination,
while John !'. Fit gerald ("llonew
Fo." tiny e-rl liini), is the denio
errit'e ear.1!. Lite Senator I.od';e
re-eleefio'i is eoeeede.!. It is esfi .
mated lo ; me that he will run far
nhea 1 cc the sl-'r ti. k t Tt is said
that many democrats will vote Sir
him in November, by way of tribute
his services to his sia'e iti his long
senatorial career.
Mr. Fitzgerald, it is said, does not
expect election, hut is looking for
ward two years hence when Senator
Weeks comes up for re-election,
"cinching" 'lis own nomination with
fie fight h. makes this fall.
In New- Hampshire there is but lit-
detnocrats served to bring republi-j ton. He will be met at Albuquerque
can union and harmony in thatihy committee from the headquar
eonnty Vo. against the common rn-jters organization here who will go
emy. When the republican ram- over the general situation with him
Mtgner. went through Mora c '--ty and as to his speaking engagements
last week, they hunted as with a oi.. r than that at the fair, wh'le a
foot h comb for dissension, for traces , large Alhtiqtierque committee has
of rehetlion or chances of fusion. I been arranged to look after receo
There nothine with which tojt'on and entertainment of the dis-
fose an1 no one inclined to do so. itingnnsnea visitor, a special invi
Thev left better satisfied of the sol
idity of Mora county than republi
imatcd Judge Pope.
Honorary Pallbearer
The honorary pallbearers were the
he was nominated and he looked and!0'"' they Zin to do onus of rejection of his services on "O
i:a. i. f.. & . r 1 t
wi'w.i naa urcn SCIH uni iroin nran-
atiarters here to all republican eoun-
eans have ever had reason to he he
fore. Practically the same conditions
hire heen enconntered in Taos and
Rio Arriba eounties where the heads
of the republican ticket are conduct
ing their eamnairm this weelt. Thry
re traflintr closely A. A. Tones, the
democratic candidate for the senate,
and W. B. Dalton, the unterrified
ty chairmen, state committeemen
and to republicans generally to at
tend" the state fair Monday in order
to hear Senator Burton's address on
the issues of the campaign.
Adjutant General H. T. Herring
has returned from Denver, where he
spent several days on military business.
. ... .0.. t , .,
acted it. Gilley say he was now o crrla'n ,mnR wmcn om' l,1e Prc"
prononnced a democrat he would ,,;nts of the. fm,r brotherhoods knew
members of the state supreme court, support any democrat no matter howla,0,,t' one tbHt ,,ie-v d,1 not ProP"-e
Chief Justice Clarence J. Roberts, As-had, against any republican no mat-1 0 ,e" any on" what tflIS was- n,,t
sociate Justices Frank W. Parker and ' ter how good, thus proving his de- t,,at ' wo"M be ,he dcc'dlnB factor
Richard H. Hanna; Judge Pope's as-!mocracy. Mac ranted about the aw-,n w!nn!nff "t in this fight." The
sociates on the territorial bench. !f,, liars at the head of republican roport of thls meet!n''- containing
among whom Were Supreme Court affairs and had it in especially forjthe wor-d' nnoted. has been in our
Justices Roberts and Parker, also Bursum, Hubbell and Cillenwater. p0,ses"on four montn'- Until with
Jndge John R. McFie, District JudgeJHe said any republican who would. ,n the ,a,t two weeks we were nevcr
M. C Mechem Judge Edward R. vote for Hubbell and Bursum after :a.me l" K" a cluc to lne ma"'"s: ot
Wright, Judge Ira A. Abbott being .hearing what he said about them was
unable to be present, and Chief Jus-not fit for citizenship in New Mex-
tice William J. Mills and Judge E.
the railroad men (officcrsV If
A. Mann having preceded him to the
crave; and the present district judg
es, Judge Granville A. Richardson
Judge David J.. Leahy; Judge Colin
Neblett, Judge E. C Abbott, Judge
Herbert F. Raynolds, Judge T. D.
Leib, Judge John T. McQure, Judge
E. L. Medler; Gov. W. C McDonald,
former Gov. M. A. Otero and Jose
D. Sena. The active pallbearers were
1 those words.
On June 10 the
the
conferences
of
''e-jmade bv the railways. (3) Thev did '" on t,lat handsomely. The demo-
ico. the tedcral and county office " nc representatives 01 tne , . n , .j;,: j crats nominated Warden Woodhnrv.
holders and the nominees for office ! brotherhoods and the conference! ... ... ., .a kinsman to Levi Woodbury, whom
Sn'lov, ay's congressional di-
a trirf The -enublicans nut itn Krai
con. mission is appointed tinder 'hese M. Keves. a wealthy man. for their
circumstances it is easy ti see how gubernatorial candidate, and th
it will not he entirely friendly to the democrats named John C. Hutchins.
radroads." jye statc is regarded as safely re-
Now. then, was the man who wrote publican on the presidency and the
that letter a prophet? He certainly governorship.
was (1) Gompers is supporting Wil-"Cy" Sulloway Hat Fight On
son for re-election, and has ben in; "I'nr'e Cy" Su'toway, however, has
close touch with both the While a real INltM on his hands. lie had
House and the labor brotherhoods, contest for the nomination in the
(2) The men did reject all offers first place, but beat his opponents
cheered him to the echo, hut the au
dience was cold.' If we can have an
other democratic meeting like this
one we can carry the county for the
republican ticket. The republicans
will have a rally tomorrow night,
when Judge Lindsey will address the
voters, and an enthusiastic meeting
is assured.
committee of the railways becran in
New York. Disagreement resulted,
and the railways offered arbitration
either by the Interstate Commerce
commission or under the Newlands
act. The employees refused both
and went ont to take a strike vote.
Meantime, the vote of the Cham
ber of Commerce of the United
...-..a : , 1. 1. - .: :..
" " . '" Thomas H Benton called "the rock
asking for it. HVThey did give theof Ncw Kngland democracy." Mr.
president a chance to intervene per- Woodbury is popular, voune. and en
snraMy and bring both sides to the ercetic. and is going after Mr. Snl-
Vh.te House. (S) The president didj,ow:lv in ,ive,v fasnion '
, . . ..... I The district is close, the vOto l
make a proposition which the labor - ... .
1914 for renresentative in rnnrrr
leaders immediately accepted, thuslbe;n(f Repnblican 20,67. democratic
(Continued on page five) I (Continued on rage five)
