I-
I
life
...
t
DAILY EDITION
,r""y or
"re.
VOI.. VII., No. 8. . GRANTS PASS, JOSEPHINE COUNTY, OREOOJf, F1UDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, llfl. WHOLE NUMBER 1804.
; v - ' 'i '", ii i i i :.
No Other Town in the World the Size of Gr ants Pass Has a Paper With Pull Leased Wi re Telegraph Service.
COUNTY HIM
CLOSED LAST on in seiie
NIGHT
Exposition Comes to an End
After Successful Season,
and the Population Makes
Merry Upon Streets oiCity
The gate at the county (air
ground now iwlng outward. The
crowd hai dispersed and the dls
mantling of the premise In about
complete. Th 1916 show I at an
end, but it baa loft behind a record
of auccoi. The dlaplay waa the best
ever assembled here, and all depart-!
menta were filled to overflowing. Some
of the beat of the exhibit are being
prepared for shipment to the state
fair, which wjll be held at . Salem
next week.
The crowd at the fair grounds
Thursday waa large, though not quite
up to the reoord act Wednesday,
which wa the bis dav. Thuridav I
night saw the largest crowd of thej
wenk upon the streets, however, and j
there waa much mirth and merriment, j
with bushel of confetti sowed upon !
the pavement. For a time Thursday ;
evening three bands were discoursing !
muslo upon the streets. The boys' j
band of Oakland. Cat., which happen-'
ed through here, gave a concert at j
Railroad nark earlv In the Vvnln:
then there wa the band of negroes I A merlcan conference was held today,
wlta tho company billed to show atjbut ne presence of Albert Panl, one
the opera house, and finally the clty'a of the Mexican commissioner, In
own Moose band, which played till jBoston revived report that a Mexl
toward morning at the pavilion dam, can loan Is being discussed.
A large part of Jhe population was) ."he Mexican commissioners have
upon the streets, and a few maskers ( Insisted all along that financial ques
added to the novlty of the occasion. entirely "secondary to the
A kangaroo court was also maintain- 'settlement of the problem of border
ed at the band stand for a time, and .patrol. With the program for border
numerous cltlxens were haled before 'patrol practically completed, It Is pos
Judge Gllmoro and fined for various tht the commission Intends to
offense. Tho fund turned In through ! take up Mexican financial affairs aa
this source will go toward paying ex-, Its next subject or discussion,
penses not otherwlso provided for. ! General Bliss will return to New
The visitors from Portland de- jlandon from Washington by Monday,
parted, with a few exceptions. for'The commissioners will confer with
their homes Thursday evening on ;lt then put the llnlahlng
train No. 16, a delegation from thej touches on the border patrol plan,
citizens being at the depot to bid them galling for co-operatlton by Carranza
farewell. 'forces until such time as the with-
Tho lists of prize winners at the'aVawal of the United State expedl-
lalr will appear In the Sunday
Courier.
INK TRAMP LOST
LIFE IN SALEM FIRE
Salem, Sept. i2. -Ruin of the big
Mullen barn near the state fair
grounds were searched today for the
body of a tramp who Is 'bollovod to
have burned to death when name
consumed that structure at 4 a. m.
The fire broke out shortly after the
mnn asked permission to sleep In the
barn. It spread to a string of live
stock cars, containing horses and
sheep sent' by M. S. I.ovy, George
Levy and J. K. Reynolds, of
LaQrandc, Ore, to be exhibited nt
tho fair. Quick work saved the ani
mals, State fair buildings also were
ennvrd nftcr a stubborn fight.
TISUTONH TAKEN FROM;
AMERICAN HlIIl RELEASED
Washington, Sept. 22, Tho thirty
eight Germans, Austrian and Turks
who were taken from tho American
steamer ?hlna by a
British warship
Rome months ago, while
ngo, wiuie en route
from Shanghai to the Philippines, Rooolpts for the past five years dur
have been roleasod, according to a ing September have avoragod about
state department dispatch ifrom 8yd-! 14 per cent of the total yield, 'which
tey, Australia. Tholr release wa the this year would moan 85,540,000
result of a state department protest, bushol.
Washington, Sept. 22 England Ii
determined to prevent the malla aels
urea situation from reaching any
thing even approaching a diplomatic
crisis. Thla wa the general belief
today, when Sir Richard Crawford,
commercial adviser of the British em
bassy, announced be will go to Sew
York early next week to confer with
leading banker and financier re
garding England' mall censorship
and It effect on American business.
Sir Richard and Secretary of 8tate
Laming held a long conference ye,
terday. Neither would dtcu the
meeting, but It waa learned today on
btgh anthorlty that Crawford gare
to Lanalng a detailed Rtatement of
hi plan a a matter of courtesy to
fhe department.
Crawford, acting under hi govern-
ment'a Instructions, plan to bend
'ewy e(rorl ,0 com, to , und(rntand.
Ing with leading banker and ftnan-
eler of this country who represent
American shipper and manufacturer
regarding meir overseas iraoc.
This is the latest plan of the Brit
ish government to meet American i
protests that England, by opening
American mall, I diverting business
to English competitors. t
New London. Conn., Sept. 22. No
formal session " of the Mexican-
:tlon Is deemed advisable,
The border patrol plan probably
'will be ready for submission to Wash
ington and Mexico City by the middle
of next week.
KMPKUOR WILLIAM
AT KOVEI, FRONT
Copenhagen Sept. 22. Bmperor
William has arrived at Kovcl front,
according to advices received here
today, and It ls believed that General
von Hlndonburg Is about to inau
gurate a drlvo against the Russians,
816 WHEAT CROP
Washington, Sept, 22. Approxim
ately 380,040,000 bushels of the 1916
wheat crop of 011,000,000, or nearly
two-thirds of It, will still be In tho
hands of tho farmers October 1, de
partment of agriculture odlclnls es
timate today. This estimate Is baaed)
on reports made by trade publica
tions, Movement of tho 1916 whoat
crop began In 'July. During that
month 64,000,000 Ibushcls were re
ceived nt tho elevators. In August
80,000,000 bushels were received.
MAY
NEGOTIATE
MEXICAN
LOAN
FARMERS
HOLDING
ORDER STRIKE BY 800.000
LABORERS IN NEW YORK
Leaders Call Oat Union Employes in All Trades and In
dustries in Sympathy With the Striking Street Car Men,
the Strike to Become Effective Next Wednesday, and
Mayor Mitchel Threatens Use of Militia
New York, Sept. 22. A general
strike, which will bring out upwarda
of 800,000 men and women, In sym
pathy with the striking street pr
mcn, wa called for Wednesday morn
ing, September 27, by the labor lead
er of New York, In conference here
this afternoon.
The action wa ttken after three
hour' debate by representatives of
80 unions. National officer of many
union and leader from nearby cities
were present.
The announcement made, follow-
,Rg he conferencai read:
"It wa decided by unanimous vote
i that a general suspension of all work
be declared In all trade and Indus-
tries In Greater New York and vi
cinity, the same to take effect Wed-
nesday morning, September 27."
j Only the yielding by the traction
i companies, which for three weeks
nave sieacuasuy lougui me employes
who, went on strike because of the
"master and servant" Individual con
tract which were' being put In force,
can avert the walkout, labor leaders
declare. It U generally conceded that
In setting the date for the general
suspension of work several days
ahead a way Is left for the Inter
borough and New York Railways
companies to yield to tie efforts of
Mayor Mitchel and the state public
service commission to bring about
arbitration.
President Shontz, of the Interbor
ough, has said, however, that he will
have no further dealings whatever
with the representatives of the car
men. The union represented at the
meeting this afternoon gave the car
men unlimited support. The fight Is
regarded by them as Involving one of
the first principles of unionism the
right of workers to organize.
The result of the struggle here,
they believe. Is of first Importance to
the cause of unionism throughout the
country. .
The carmen's strike has been one
of the most bitter labor struggles In
the history of the city to date, though
it has been marked with comparative
ly little violence, considering the
character the deadlock has reached.
Facing the warning of Mayor Mit
chel that he will pall out the inllltla
In they event of a general strike,
the striking street railway men
and labor leaders went in session to
Los Angeles, Sept. 22. Queerer
than a voire from tho grave were the
worda of Flight Lieutenant Klrby to
day, lifting out of tho smoke rifts of
tho'llrltlsh lines onho Somme, and
telling his little slater In Hollywood
what a terrlblo thing war really was.
Dainty Miss Madge Klrby, in a quiet
bungalow unsealed a small package
bearing tho British army postal
stamp, placed a rocord on a grafanola,
and waited:
"Dear llttlo sister," began tho voice
from nearly half way around the
world and slater llstenod breath
lessly to tho voice of her own brother
RFANOLA
RECORD
CARRIES
MESSAGE
"you're listening to brother In the Kansas City revivals, A total of nenr
tronrhos near ToMeres. Does tho ro- ly 200,000 persons have turned out
cord carry tho booming as 1 hour It?
Now. that you hear mo, I wish vo t
could only take one Uttlo pee lutt
this world fl"d th t'
Anally consider whether 800,000 or
ganized worker should be called out
Characterizing a sympathetic atrlke
as "grossly violative of the lawj
Mayor Mitchel ha warned the labor
leaders that be will uae all of the
"military and civil power vested In
the mayor" to cope with such a situ
ation.
New xorK, sept. it. Whether a
general walkout of upwards of 800,'
000 union workers in New York Is
to be called In support of the strlk
Ing employes of the traction com
panies rested this afternoon on the
result of a conference of representa
tives of the labor unions of the city
The labor leaders went into session
at the Continental hotel at 2:35. The
sentiment as they went into their
secret meeting seemed to favor the
voting of strong support to tho car
men in their fight, which the leaders
regard as Involving the entire ques
tion of the right of workers to or
ganize. v
A majority of the leaders appar
ently were In favor of union men and
women In a score or more trades
showing their sympathy for the car
men by remaining away from work
until the traction trouble is satis
factorily settled. The only question
appeared to be whether the walkout
would take the form of an actual
strike or a boycott of the car lines
and backed up by a novel plan which
would have the same effect as a
strike call.
Sixty-five unions were represented
at the conference called this after
noon. " The majority of the union
leaders expressed confidence in their
abtlity to call a sympathetic strike
that would soon bring the car com
panies to terms.
In addition to calling upon all
union workers not to patronise the
afreet cars, subway and elevated lines.
the leaders considered a flan of de
claring that as the workers can not
travel In safety under the present con
ditions on the transportation lines,
they will remain away from their jobs
until the situation, is restored' to
normal. This, it is realized, will be
only when the traction companies
consent to arbitration or some other
means is found of bringing the strike
to an end. The conference of the
labor leaders was expected to last
most of the afternoon.
Father was In the thick of the fight
at Pozieres, but he's'safe and sound
as A whistle."
The voice went on In a reassuring
way, telling "little sister" how he
downed a German warplane over the I
ground where the British and French
advanced.
Miss Klrby answered her brother's
rocountal by talking into a blank re
cord herself and mailing It to her
brother "somewhere In France." ,
HILLY SUNDAY STARTS ,
097 ON TRAIL IN WOTItOIT
Detroit, Sept. 23. Billy Sunday
had a total of 697 converts to his cre
dit In Detroit today after two nights
of "tralLhlttlng" in the Sunday taber
nacle. This exroedB by almost 200
tho number of conversions for the
first two nlghtn of tho Baltimore and
to hear tho evangelist during tho first
wenk nnd a half of his meetings hore.
Collections to da'to have totaled
tt4. 873.12.
TOO LIS OF
ran Tins
TAKEN BY BRITISH
London, Sept 22. British troops
advanced on' a mile front south of
the Ancre last night, capturing two
lines of Germans trenches between
Flers and Martlnpulch, General Halg
reported this afternoon. . , . , .
The German war office almost
flatfy contradicted the British claims
t iitMM,, w A n nr. In am!' ml h.a
engagement and artillery duel on
the Somme front.
Berlin also made no mention of
heavy German attacks against the
French line north of the Somme the
repulse of which was officially an
nounced at 'Paris today.
Oflrial admission came from Ber
lin tflkt the Russians hare won a
victory in the savage fighting going
on around the Smotrec mountain !n
the Carpathians. The czar's troops
have occupied the summit of the
mountain and also retain their hold
on a part of the Austrc-German
trenches near Kortynlca.
On both front in the Balkans the
czar's soldiers are also vigorously on
the offensive. The Russians, co
operating with the Roumanians, ate
making determined attacks on the
German-Bulgarian lines in Dobrudja
where Field Marshal von Mackensen's
army Is steadily retreating, according
to Bucharest despatches. In Mace
donia the Slavs are fighting beside
the French and Serbians. An official
statement issued at Paris today re
ported marked advances by both
French and Serbian troops, though
the Bulgarian war office claimed the
repulse of all allied attacks.
L
IS DEATH-DEALER
Washington. Sept. 22. With Walt
er Johnson, Grover Cleveland Alex
ander, Babe Ruth and others of their
ilk in the first line trenches, the
United States ought to whip any na
tion on earth if an Invention by a
United States army officer works ont
and is adopted here.
The latest death-dealer has oeen
named tho spitball bomb. It IsUhe
shape and size of a big league base
ball. It is propelled exactly as a
baseball is propelled. Unlike hand
grenades being used in Europe, it
will not explode by contact.
On its surface Is a small hook-like
hump. This hump is supposed to
catch on an attachment worn on the
thrower's hand. As the spitball
bomb leaves the hand this hook Is
pulled out, starting the deadly works
inside, which explode a few seconds
later. lAn expert bqmbthrower could
work havoc in an enemy trench, the
bomb containing high explosives.
CHICAGO WOULD
FIX BREAD WEIGHT
Chicago, Sept. 22. An ordinance
to halt the advance in bread prices,
announced yesterday, was proposed
today by Morris Eller, city sealer. His..'
plan is to require bread loaves to be
labeled one pound, or one and a half
pounds, and prohibiting the sale of
loaves weighing three-quarters of a
pound. He says this would foroe
bakers to make pound loaves Instead
of twelve-ounce ones, and counts on
PT
BOMB
public sentiment to keep the price persons helplessly watched two men
down to six cents. burn to death "beneath an overturned
Following tho lead of one large 'automobile that went over an em
bakery yesterday, announcing ln-bankment near the causeway shortly
creased prices, othor 'bakeries are to- after midnight last , night, causing
day expected to make similar an-
nouncemonts,
; The federal department of justice
will take no notice of the announced
Increase, unless H Is shown the bakers
nre acting In combination, It was said
teday. ,
CHIEFS
OF ESPEE
President and General Man
ager of Sodhera Pacfe
Will Arrive ra Grants Pass
Tcnigtt to Grest Gtizcis
Wm. Sproule, president of th
Southern Paciflo railroad system, ac
companied by W. R. 8cott. the gen
eral manager of tho same road, will
arrive la Grants Pass some time to
night, sad will remain here to meet
our citizens Saturday forenoon. The
coming of these two official heads of
the railroad company is In response
to an Invitation extended to them by
the local Commercial club. The In
vltatlon asked that the visit bj dar
ing the progress of the connty fair.
If possible, otherwise at such time
as was convenient to the gentlemen
themselves. It waa expected that the
visit eould be before the fair closed.
bat Messrs. Sproule and Scott were
called to Salem from San Francisco
to appear at. the hearing before the
state railroad commission at the ear
shortage probe, and tbey could not
get here sooner. Mr. Sproule wired
the club, however, that they would
come a soon as they could get away
from the hearing, and later advices
state thatjhey will leave' Portland
this afternoon by special train, and
will stop off In Grants Pass to meet
its people in response to the friendly,
invitation. v , '
It Is probable that an inspection
of the sugar factory and a trip over
tho new raliroad to the Waters Creek
terminal will be included la the en
tertainment provided for the visitors,
while as many of Grants Pass busi
ness men as possible will greet
Messrs. Sproule and Scott personally.
Passenger Agent John M. Scott Is
now In the city; and will remain here
daring the visit of the Espee chiefs.
BT A SEAPLANE
Berlin, via Sayville, Sept. 22.
Austrian seaplanes bombarded and
sank the French submarine Foucaus
in the southern 'Adriatic, said an
official statement from the Austrian
admiralty today.
The submarine's crew, composed of
two officers and 27 men, were rescued
and rnde prisoners by the aviators
and later turned over to a torpedo
boat' ,
The two French officers were trans
ported back to an Austrian harbor by
Austrian aeroplanes. . ,
This was probably the first time In v
history when an air machine defeated
an under-the-water craft in battle and
then carried away prisoners.
- The pilot of the Austrian plane was
Lieutenant Clezeny and the observer
Lieutenant von KUmberg. Another
plane,
piloted by Lieutenant Kern-
Jevec, with Cadet Severs
observer.
helped to capture the submariners.
MEM Rl'llST TO DEATH
UNDER OVERTURNED AUTO
Galveston, Sept. 22. Several score
three deaths. The tank exploded and
the flames spread so rapidly that the
crowd was unable to pull the victim
from beneath the wreck.
The dead are: H. T. Roach, 80;
W. 8. Dennis, Jr., 22; Miss Claudia
LIU
SUBMARINE
S!l
Collier, 18.
