KLAMATH COUNTY'S
0FFICIAL NEWSPAPER
3ttj laitfttttuj iterato
KLAMATH FALLS'
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
t3Tf",h
Volll No. a, i oil
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1916
Trice, Fire Centf
GERMANY IS SUGGESTING ARMISTICE
GERMANS TO START
DRIVE INTO RUSSIA
WUM.WH
iik
r:::lAB0R SITUATION
IS
OriMiM IWn-iit '' Miles From
IWltun I'mmiI, unit Sllll A i imi the
IbirkNard Mil"''. '" iHHiilun.
llrilMi Tnko TiciiiIh-. in tlm W-M
wl Cm Teuton In Hetivut Mr,
KiM IWeiie of ltnMUiiic.
NOT
IMPROVED
harvesting of iwm, uraix
crop man increased re.
MA.I FOR lailOHEHS, AL
HEAR .MA 1)1 : ACUTE
rnlltd Prw Service
rOIKNIIA!i:. J-Vpt. 22. It In
rfllablr reported tint Kaiser Wllhclm-
t,- arrhoil nt Kowil and In conftjr
ring with General on MackeiiHeii
w the uropoted drhe against the
Uwlini. The trio will be directed
ij ven Mackriisen
t'ulted Prcg Ben Iro
LONDON, Sept 2'-' It Ih purnlnt
ttlly rumored In London Hint (lur
nivj li endeavor I iik to suggest an
A scarcity of lnborcrn In Klomatli
county, which luui existed nil Hum
mer, apparently Ih still the conditions
of nffalrri. Even yet men are wanted
In many plnom, nnd at Crater Lake
Park In large mimbcrit.
Harvesting of the grain crop bus
.'.uinliiatcd the deinnnd for men,
J.ftc u slight lull In the demand bo-
twt".Mi hnylng and grain harvesting.
Farmers arc In town every day, call-
lint: for two or tlirernd somctlt.im.
Warship Memphis on Rocks in Santo Domingo Harbor fHffl BUILD BIG SAW
MILL ON UPPER LAKE
mm - - m rl i nnn , i.-i mi . a i nwiiiu iwwn.iii . . i mil ii.m ., Im
' 'w , , " 1iA vfH'. '"','' :
' V, - z?4 - , j
' w 7
' J try&& UA Wi -p iJ 1
JHHBHHHHRHBSiMiiiMiftCMUHHRHH
'MWMMIWMHIMMimiMIMWMWa
TIiIh photograph wiih taken a few hours after the United Stated
cruder McmphlH, formerly tlie Tcnnecc, went iiHhore on the rock In the
harhor of Santo DoiuIuko. In a heavy Ktorm the vcbhoI started for the
open Hca to be clear, but the main Btcaiuplpu buret, killing many men in
Rtuntly and InJurliiR many more, and hIic as helpless. She was banged
aKnliiHt the rockn nnd badly damaRed,
.. .
irmUUce tlirough America ;n8paln, ,"."' """
uBtdlum. """ " I'teutenant fleorico K. (Joodwln has
in .itimdliiR call for 100 men for work
United Preiw 'Scrvlro 1" '" romlii In Crntor liko Park.
I'AHI8, Rept 2'J The Hcrblaim HoyltiKton Urothcra today hpiiI In
tnrlly ilcfcnled the llulKarlnun on ealpfor three men to work In the
tbe SbrMkc front today. , wood In the OiIi-hhii country. Other
The French iidvamed thori iiIho rumpH nlmi need men.
nd raptured tlm reKlon uorthwent! '''' I'fllcan liny Lumber company
f Armcwkl. Il tukltiK thU it-Rlim ''tnlly dlMeontlnued runnliiK iit
the French line reached the height n,Kl becniiKe of liiHiifllrivnt iii"n
donliuitlnx tlm Florin I'opllu roud, I
RIVERS OPENED BY
POLITICS IS CHARGE
BILLING'S CASE
GOESTO JURY
TUB DKPHMMXT'S ATTOHXKV
CHAKGBH THAT CASK OF l'UOS-
KCUTJON IS "FnAMKD," Al
LOVI.(i GUIITV TO KSCAI'B
Vrbii-
Tbe Bcrblnim Iiiimi reached
tli, mirth of Kloilua
In the ht a loluit fleininn conn
ter on the new French lino iiIoiik tlm
6ommc a repulKed IIiIh n(turiiM)ii.
tXM.MITTBK XAMBIl FOU
m:.t hbiibkaii iia.nvii.t
At the recular iiieelliiK of l'riiNpei-
My Itebeknh I.odcc the follow I i-i
luemberri were nuimd us the comiult-
HllnlPreii8eniro ieo for the Imii'i lot lit the llrnt re;u.
8AIX)NIKA, Sept 22. Allied war- '"" mwlhiK In Oetoltr.
Mim laat nlglit mil thin jnoruliiK' Joihlo l.lyo (el nlriiinn). A, J I.yle,
'belleii the Unitarian eunip7il Neck-''-!l linvw, Cluu. (inivim, Utile ':ir
wrla, near the (iulf of Orfaulu, Tlio',,-,'t'n' ;hiH. Cii-ndnn l.lzzle Fltih,
muiti are ninioiiuied
torjr,"
IIH "HlltlHf.lC-
tolled Preai Service
IX).ND0N, Kept 22 The ItiiHulatiii
Mlnarc uIviiikIuk In the Cnrpath
, cccupyliiR (, HUiniult of Hmot
W mountain.
TheltuaalaiiHiilHo are nttaekluB on
WhoKbollulkan fioniH.
.Mary North, V. II. North, Mm. Town
"H.'iiil, llose Kivhph, (Sreta llradley,
!oiKe llradlej. Anuen MiiHten, Mav
Tower, Alva Jlr.l'. 'Vlniile White, 1).-.
V. M White, Aillo Worrel.
I'llted Prena Service
"KHUN, Sept ItiifMltin troops
attacking tlm Teuton Hue at I)ub-
,, , . Vlgoro,' "KlitliiK marks tho
Wliltlea all nlonK this front.
Southwest of T.mllezti tho Rumin.
""Mr Hank ha8 been routed.
WPrfMH7
t.lSlT' 8"1,, "-Oon-rnl HhIr
WU that the nrlHl, ,mve ,,.
J" """'' t Ancre along n mlln
Here. Froni Oik'Nsn.
James Stinw Is Npeudlui; a few
dayn In Klamath Fall.s on business.
Mr, Straw has n homestead in tho
Oilcnsu country.
THIS AXI ItBI'KAIi STASH AT
I'l.AVKD AH TltUMl CAHOS
I
Clitilriiiiin of ItepiililiMiii (Viitrul
('oniiiilltiti ChiiiKw That Iteeenl
Ails of WII.miii Ailiiilni(mtioii, I !
meilialely I'isTediiiK National Flec
tion, Aie (ilaiiucly I'olitlcal in
Tlieir Natmv.
front, ciipturlui; two lines of tieuches
between Flers and Miirtlupueh.
The Ciii'iuaus are retiring iiIoiik the
(iiiedeouit highway for n final do
fuuee of llnpaume.
A report from Salonika says the
ClormniiH have retrcnted ovor tlvo
miles from tho Dubrudjn front, nnd
are titlll rotrentliiK.
Tho Husslan-Huinanla advance In
Transylvania continues,
F. Worthington Charged
With M of a Saddle
ed and carried into effect. Graves
mil Knapp's mill was compelled to
close, as they had been Induced, by
the administration, to build on tho
rlor, and water transportation wns
their only means of securing logs. I
They, together with the other citizens
of tills county, also tho Portland
Chamber of Commerce, the Klamath
Commercial Club and other commer
cial bodies oer the st.ilo did every
thing in their power in 1913 to in
dtue the dciui tmcut to relieve this
situation and rescind tho closing or-i
der, hut to no purpose.
Latterly certain laigo lumber iu
.... li i
m n,.i . i in lercais are saiu 10 nave Diown now,
,, , .. , ,. .life Into tho movement for tho open
the Ironing Herald to the effect thatlng ((f tho rvcW ,()(I t tQok but
tho kecretary or tho Interior had ro- worlI oI tleil. mKc v0ce to liiduco!
hcluded his order, promulgated soon the department to rescind the closing j
after the Wilson administration went order. It camo too late to relievu
Into power, closing tho rivers of tho Graves and Knnpp, however, because
Klamath Indian reservation to log- tho policy of tho WiUou admlnistra
gliiR operations and other Industrial Hon hud utterly ruined them fiuan
iihcs. Many people of this commun- chilly.
Ity were doubtless glad to hear of ili, t ia8 occurred to leitaln citizens
order rosclnding the olio closing rlv- r thiB community, as well as myself,
ers on tho reservation, but in vlow of (i1)lt tll0 .l0 roROIis for opening the
the f. ict this older is immediately pre-1 ,.V0r3 of t)l0 Klamath reservation at
irdliiR one of tlio hardost-fouglit po- tll0 e0Venth hour hhould be made
lit fetal campaigns that tho country has iowii. It will be seen that it is a
seen for wears, It might bo well for combination of big business and dem
tho voters to stop and consider tho cratlc politics. Theso two conslder-
reiBons wny mo rivers uavo ueuu n(on8 combined had moro weight
United Press Service
SAN KHANCISCO. Sept. 22. The
murder case of Warren K. Billings
wnt to the jury this afternoon nt 'J
o'clock.
In his argument this morniiM. At
torney McNutt for the defense, charg
ed that tho state's cae was "framed,"
and allowed the guilty persons to
escape.
Prosecutor Ureunnn made tho clos
ing argument for tho state.
lly JOHN H. HBAIUjBV
(United Press Staff Correspondent)
ItOMK, Sept. 22. Popo Benedict
will hold another consistory in No
vember, when ho will make an im
portant declaration regarding the war
and tho prospects for peace, the
opened at this eleventh hour by thewth commissioner Sells of the m-(United Press was informed by reliable
Wilson ndmlnlstiutlon. This Is said d,n bureau and Secretary Lane thnn sources todny.
In vlow of tho fact that tho repeal of . (no nl)Cais of Knnpp and Graves nnd I,ls holiness will create several for
tho Wilson "stump net" and tho eight ( tll0 wholo community of Klamath eiBn cardinals nt this consistory. Arch-
POPE TO TALK
OF PEACE SOON
WILL HOLD AXOTHEIt COX81S
TOKY IX XOYBMUKH WILL
CHKATB SBVBX FOItBIGX CAR.
IHXA1.S AT THAT TIMB
LABOR LEADERS
CALL A STRIKE
FOR WEDNESDAY
ALL LMOXIZKI) TIIADBS OF XKW
YOIIK AFT-'ECTED
Major Mitchell Threatens to Cull Out
Militia, Which Brings TcmporJry
I'ostHnement of Walkout When
leaders Go Into Secret Session
They MUc Unanimously to Force
Acquiescence bjr Railways.
The labor leaders late this
afternoon unanimously called
4 lor a. sympathetic strike, to be
effective jjext Wednesday morn-
ing. Thblnctudes all union-
lied trades of New York, and the
vicinity. "
'"
Uplted Press Service
NEW YORK, Sept. 22. Following
the threat of Mayor Mitchell to call
the state militia, leaders of the car
men's and other unions today began a
final consideration of the sympathetic
strike of 800,000 workers.
It Is expected that the crisis will
come before night.
The state industrial commission
has summoned officials of the street-'
car companies and beads of the
HUILDIXG DEPENDS OX SECUR
ING TIMBER
Currently Reported Tliat Mill May
Go Up Xext Spring With Men Prom.
Incut in Lumber Circles Behind It.
Petition to Turn Land From Lot
ami Streets Back Into Acreage
Gives Report Sound of Trutti.
While nothing positive will be ad
mitted by men believed to be inter
ested, it is currently reported on the
street that a big sawmill is to be
erected on the lower end of Upper
Klamath Lake, somewhere' between
the Winema Landing and Pelican
City.
Truth is loaned to the rumor by
the fact that tbe Klamath Develop
ment company is now petitioning the
city council for vacation of several
lots and streets In Shippington Addi
tion, and by the fact that E. H. Cox,
president of the Weed Lumber com
pany, Tuesday held a conference with
Indian Commissioner Cato Sells in
Arash'Ingtonr'"cohcernTni,nie 'sale of
timber on Klamath Indian reserva
tion. The thing upon which erection of
the mill seems to hinge is securing
a large body of timber In the north
ern part of Klamath county for the
mill to feed on. If this is secure the
general opinion is that the mill will
bet built, and in the not distant future.
It Is not known who Is interested
in tho contemplated venture, but S
O, Johnson, president of the Klaw
t.tli Development company; Herbert
T.l rt lull liOfllaK tf Gin PlHtnilBiw. 1. Y
m. .wou..,...... i ,, i iwiunu, .. -..
unions to appear next Monday, in Cox of the Weed Lumber companj.
hopes of effecting a compromise.
r.obcrt A. Johnson, president of the
Manufacturing company.
Executives of blxty-iive unions art! Klamath
in a secret session this afternoon on., and Charles E. Riley aro reported as
the question of a sjmpathetlc strike, i being among the men who may hold
It is not known whether they will de-'stock in the mill, if it is built.
tlare an actual walkout or a boycott
of the street cars. Horton Visits.
Tho leaders are confident of their Jack Horton of HUdebraM-lon
ability to call a sympathetic strike, Klamath Falls on business today.
f rowith the street cars boycotted!
they would not be able to reach .heir H. S. Newton, a farmer of the val-
work, causing the employers to work, ley south of town, traded with local
for a settlement. merchants for provisions today.
hour law have both boon played as county
dump cards by tho present numiuis- T,s
scheme cf tho ndmlnlstra-
bishop Uanna of San Francisco, is the
only American whose name is being
1111... . - "f ..... ,-- -- , .HIS OlIIUlllli 1.1 !. UU.UDIIOII - 1
trillion Just preceding tho election, t0 to (),,en ,, ,le ,iNCrs of tho res- c0,,8Wered nt Present
and nearly every official act of the ad- erVatlon at the eleventh hour, and
Just piocedlug the picsldentlnl elec
tion, Is in lino with certain other ac
tions cf the administration In tho
Papal couriers already aro en route
to Vienna and Berlin to notify Aus
trian nnd German cardinals of the
coming conclave. Tho Italian govern-
mlnlstritlon nnd IU minions called
"deserving democrats,"" has been glar
ingly political in Its nature.
Mllburn Knapp and Charles Ornves,
eaily In tho Wilson .administration, U8ll0(, lsta of mun0 inu8 opened to dcs "t object to tho holding of a
censisiory, anu win liuenere in uu
wny with tho entrance of tho Austro-
Western country. 1 rotor to tho pub-j went has advised the vntlcan that It
had been Invited to go upon tho Klnm-jou(,.y
ath loservatlon and erect a saw nun
on tho bmks of tho Williamson Riv
er, with the oxpresbod nnd Implied as
Rurnnco that they would not bo mo
lested by tho government. They went
Tho loaders of this articlo will re
call reading In this and other papers Herman cardinals into Italy.
notices of .lands restored to entry I Archbishop Edward J. Hanna of
from tho forest resorves of the United San Francisoc is now in his 57th year,
:... ...h irmn tlm United States " wus oorn in Mocnesier, in. i . ue
Charged u in, , . .. . ..... k
KIU,M examined the saddlehad. nnd In good faith put P their r thc8e navo UPCI1 ,)uull8ll,n, uut ,n'l907 was nominated co.dJutar.rcJ
?" Wi mornliiB ... ..-...J .. " ...i' "..:." n,m n,,d commenced operating It. LVnrvo.,n. when H.vestiR-atcd. it was bishop of San Francisco, but failed t(
' ,0 the rr..,.i i. . " ""Hiiu ovur lUiu uovmoy, ""'.. . .. ... rr,u .-., . '. . .. .. ., .... rulvn mnHrmnllnn nf Ttnmn hnmusn
tnny 'H tho On missing tho saddle Beckley What was ne e, '--, rounu wn 'f"0"."1 ) X Tn !
ovo to Silver Lake Wednesday in first .usistam -., -. - - iprea d us o. - - :7" " -"" T.."!
E.V,no
111. -.. I . inn nmlnliiAil a Inot In 1CC1 flnrl t
ahead nnd Invesieu every cum ""? (reclamation withdrawals. A number """ " v-- .
and In Reed faith put up their of thc8e havo bpen published, but In '" w"s nominaica co.ajutar arcn-
mill and commencea oporauiiB n. everyone, when Investigated, it was i'wm.i.,hiiii
High School Trims Town
Team by 20 to 0 Score
Nit -'(in "Is bonds wore rtrovo to Silver Lake Wednesday in nrat iubihibhi
''WHrnooa i ' and bolnK unable this j hl automobile, summoned Deputy lor, Alexander
toBM-? .furn,Bh tlMm. ". a lu'Pherlfr-P. D. Reeder of Lake county, Secrotary cf tlv
'eoiintvi.n v"',u, """ u.fnerT
. "Dth.,1, ' .. and
Ceckley .u " . B,l,n" u,lB morning prlsono
Vogeleane. Hlong with
tho Interior Lane s broth
land with only a fow acres of public agalnbt hlra. This charge was later
1nn.1i. Amhr.rnH therein. This was disproved. ropo rius .v appoiaiaa
""rrldin.0? Umt U' ""d"10- with '"nils
'Mromiu.Pftra."1,ur,"'J. wore .toU went
MWotMrrni. lb er.MHIed the Klamath reservation op' aono (o fooI tho people and make him auxiliary bishop of San FrancU
mer w brought K Klamath hMntlng and Ashing expedition andjtnem bellevo that tho w,iBOn .dmln.W. October 32. 1913 and on Juno I
as evenS Worthington recommended the closing of Ha ,8.Htloix wa nllMlnti tula coutry 101 5, ho was appointed archbishop of
I jasi oveiiuib' iiuiiiiiiuvb ,., ..nmnnininn I. it t....A ,. .... . . S-in Frnnclsco bv Pooo Benedict. Ho
from Klumnth marsh direct to streams. Their
4 ""in hl ... . ' u,u Blu'" ."Pill iroui rviuiiiiiui mi ..- . ui.i,, Wllqnii's
""'''' ,m K,nnmlh """h'silver Lnko, nnd was riding nockloy'-.tundo to ono of Proal den W llso
m Woilhingiou iinH benn'Miii.iin w!, P,.,icd. U'ablnet officers, wns promptly adopt-
recuiiiuioiiuuiiwi., rrom tne Dugnt u una neon unaeri"-" '-" - - -.. ..-.
, I WHO II1'1UII1VVU IAJUI.IIUQIUIIVI Vft ..4.I...'
ilhlngton had boon ' Middle whon nrroitcrt
(Continued on Page 4)
'ttratlon of California In 1913,
By a score of 20 toO, the Klamath
county high school football team yes
terday afternoon defeated the team of
town boys collected to provide scrim
mage practice for the school boys.
Three touchdowns and two goals af
ter touchdown furnished tho 20
points.
Tho school boys clearly had the un
fnuied and unconditioned town boys
outclassed In every department. Yet
two of their touchdowns were
"leaks," aud only ono made by buck
ing. Tho town team would have
scored ono touchdown it a perfect
ppbs, Poll to Graves, had not been
droppod by the latter. Graves was
lenyards behind tho goal .lino whon
he jecelved the bill, but allowed it to
drop through his arms.
The game yesterday was the first
scrlraraige for the school boys this
year, and initiated many of them who
ha.-o not had football experience,
Considering that tho squad has been
out les than two weeks, and many of
Its members aro Inexperienced, tho
bChool boys showed up fairly well.
Coach Hugglns has mapped out a
good-looking offensive, and has some
good men to carry it out. The quar
terback U largely eliminated, and it
is hard to dope out which way tho
play Is going. The line could be Im
proved by more beef. "
Graham Klehl, captain and back
field man, is the real star of the
team He uses good Judgment in di
recting the offeneslve, runs well with
the loli, and can pass and kick; ho
ocs hard, and will Improve with
I.ractlce. Ho pulled down tho only
fcrward pass completed by Coach
Jl'iKcin's men yesterday. In tho line
Koh I lliott at end shows up strong
est at present.
Those who played for the town
team yesterday are Lawrence Mot
schenbacher, Kennoth Perry, Cecil
Weeks. Will Hum. Clarence Mot
schenbacher, Forrert Pell, Alvsro'
Deals, Read Bain, Will McMillan.
Maurico Graves, Ira Orem and Noil
Sbinn.
Coach Hugglns used fifteen m
desirlng to give as many candid!
for tho team as possible a workout.
.M
?f
fi
I
m
sn
